[Note 16] *Theories.* There is, I think, a special problem in making theories about the psychology of adults, in whom cultural evolution has had its full interaction with individual and organic evolution. Consider that complex of laughing, smiling, good-natured interactions called "good humor", in which we as often enjoy engaging and surprising frame-shifts of high quality as we enjoy nonsense worthy only of being suppressed. The joking ambiance is used as much to develop analogies as to restrict them -- and my distinction between positive and negative seems to fall apart. If anything remains uniform in the different varieties of humor, it is perhaps only that highlighting of manipulating unexpected frame-shifts -- but in a bewildering variety of ways. Does this mean the theory is refuted? I think not, but to explain why I must digress to discuss "adult development."

No, a baby theory is not necessarily refuted by an adult counterexample Most psychologists have not sufficiently appreciated the full power of an adult intellect to re-construct itself -- to exploit and rearrange its earlier components. Stage after stage of intricate developments are superimposed, in which both internal and cultural influences modify earlier ones. This process would be complicated enough if it were spontaneous -- that is, if only internal factors were involved. But much of it is also socially institutionalized; everyone in the culture "knows" which concerns, and which manners of behavior, are "appropriate" for four-year-olds, nine-year-olds, college students, or professors of philosophy.

The most powerful theoreticians of developmental psychology have struggled to untangle the different principles and forms of these influences; still only the surface has been touched. We yet know far too little to confidently declare that such-and-such a behavioral exhibition either illustrates or refutes a given psychogenetic hypothesis. In my view, the most profitable activity in the present era is to experiment, not on people to see if an hypothesis about the mind is true or false, but on computers to see if a proposed theory-fragment can be made part of a system that shows mind-like activity. To be sure, this can never show, by itself, that the theory in question then must resemble a human mechanism -- but it seems hardly worth trying to verify *that* until a theory shows signs of meeting a first condition -- that it be capable of contributing to life-like activity. In short, we are unlikely to discover much of that which is, until we discover more of that which could be.

[Note 17] *Attachment.* Of course, the sociobiology of reproduction is far more complicated than suggested here. Provisions for child-raising conflict in many ways with provisions for gene-dissemination. Many different sociobiological islands of stability exist, both potentially and actually.

*An "acquisition envelope" hypothesis:* Here is a different example of how both individual and social development might be influenced by a genetic control of a learning-rate. It is a commonplace observation that persons who learn second languages after adolescence rarely acquire the phonetic competence of native speakers; they rarely come to speak the new language "without an accent". When told to pronounce something "like this, not like that," they seem to sense too little difference to know what changes to make. I conjecture that this reflects a post -
