method can do much better than chance, but what if it yields a result that does more harm than good? I will argue that one now must build a censor, and that there is a general principle here that learning theorists have not appreciated: *positive general principles need always to be supplemented by negative, anecdotal censors.*

For, it hardly ever pays to alter a general mechanism to correct a particular bug. Almost every instance-specific modification of a best-match mechanism would reduce its general usefulness. So when the general mechanism yields a bad result, one can only remember to suppress its subsequent appearances -- that is, to build a censor. If a child wants his sibling’s toy, he will first try seizing it -- the most general way to get things one wants. Once the parents see to it that this is censored, then he can find other ways. But he must *not* learn *in general* not to take things he wants, lest he become helpless.

Some forms of humor, notably puns, turn on changing the meaning-sense of a word. (Besides the easily distinguished dictionary senses, most words have also many others that would never be separated in a dictionary. "Lift," for example, has different implications when an object weighs one gram, or a thousand, {7} and really to understand lifting requires a network for making appropriate shifts among such different micro-senses.) While verbal sense-shifting can be funny, and even useful, it is dangerous, and especially hazardous to be subject to the fortuitous, meaningless sense-shifts that depend on superficial word-sound similarities. In a fragment of a schizophrenic’s transcript, the patient sees a penny in the street, says "copper, that’s a conductor," then must run to a street car to speak to the conductor. Perhaps this disorder is one of frame-shift control, either disabling the bad-analogy suppressors or irresponsibly enhancing the general analogy-finder.

The element that seems to me most common to all the different kinds of humor is that of unexpected frame-substitution, in which a scene is first described from one viewpoint and then suddenly -- typically by a single word -- one is made to view all the scene-elements in another, quite different way. Some such shifts are insightful, of course, while others are mere meaningless accidents. Next we turn to a kind that could be turning points in each individual’s personal evolution.

IV. TRAUMATIC COGNITIVE EXPERIENCES

*"Yields truth when appended to its own quotation"*  
yields truth when appended to its own quotation.  
--W. V. Quine

In the popular psychology of our day, Intellect is seen as straightforward, deliberate, conscious, and emotionally neutral; but in regard to emotional matters, the public has come generally to accept the psychoanalytic view that Affect is dominated by unknown terrors and traumas, lurking in the unconscious since childhood. Now I want to challenge this affect-intellect "dumbbell". I certainly do not mean to suggest that there are no differences of kinds in mental affairs -- only that this
