times. What is "too many?" There is, I fear, no elegant answer. We each have to learn and master large bodies of knowledge about the limitations of each species of reasoning.

It might be useful to try to catalog the kinds of cognitive incidents that must have so baffled each of us in early life. Each reader must recall the distress of being made to discern the arbitrary boundaries between one ocean and another, or at trying to answer *"which came first, the chicken or the egg?"* Every child must have wondered about his origin and from whence came the *first* person. Only the dullest child never found for himself some sort of Zeno paradox, or Achilles and Tortoise problem. I remember being especially disturbed to discover that there were questions that adults had *no* way to answer.

MYSTICAL EXPERIENCE: Another family of disturbances arise when we question our own purposes. *"Why should I do this,"* -- whatever it is -- one asks, and proposes some answer. But then one is impelled to continue, "why should I want *that,*" and so forth. There is a not uncommon phenomenon -- sometimes called mystical experience -- from which a person emerges with the conviction that some unsolvable problem (like the purpose of existence) has been completely explained; one can't remember quite how, only that it was answered so well as to leave no doubt at all. This, I venture, reflects some mental mechanism (perhaps one of last resort) that, in a state of particularly severe turmoil or stress, can short-circuit the entire intellectual process -- by *creating the illusion that the problem has been settled.* Powerful but dangerous, such a mechanism short-cuts the canons of normal confirmation. One kind of confusion-cycle is thereby broken, but this may damage other ways in which sane minds confront beliefs with evidence. Then, anything can happen. {10}

## V. HUMOR AND EVOLUTION

> *If you wish to study a granfalloon*  
> *just remove the skin of a toy balloon.*  
> -- Kurt Vonnegut, in *Cat's Cradle*

In the 1912 edition Freud, still perplexed about the purpose of nonsense, recounts a joke of this form: {11}

> *"A man at the dinner table dipped his hands in the mayonnaise and then ran them through his hair. When his neighbor looked astonished, the man apologized: "I'm so sorry. I thought it was spinach."*

We have argued that learning about bugs is central to the growth of reason. But reason itself grows in no vacuum; most of our ideas -- and *our ideas about ideas* -- come via our families and cultures, and this poses some special communication problems. For one, it is risky to point out the mistakes of a person one wants to please. So this must be done in some "conciliatory" manner -- and humor seems involved in this. For another, if learning about bugs involves a special kind of memory, then
