do the control structures that have become traditional in the literatures of AI and of Cognitive Psychology. It is perfectly understandable that the early years of the "Information Processing Approach" should have focussed on the astonishing power of the newly-invented single-process serial computer. But "meta-knowledge" is not easily accommodated by such machines, and I see the strain showing in attempts to realize more ambitious ideas about intelligent learning -- *viz,* in [10] and [11].

[Note 2] *Partial Mental state.* I don’t mean to suggest that the *entire* brain ever repeats the same global state. One could say but little about "mental states" if one imagined the Mind to be a single, unitary thing. But if we envision a mind (or brain) as composed of many partially autonomous "agents", then we can talk of repeating a "partial mental state" -- that is, a subset of *the states of those agents.* This is discussed more precisely in [6]. The notion of partial mental state allows one to speak of entertaining *several partial states at once* -- to the extent they are compatible -- that is, they do not assign different states to the same individual agents. And even when they conflict, the concept still has meaning if such conflicts can be settled within the Society. In [6] I argue that such local mechanisms for conflict resolution could be the antecedents of what we know later as *reasoning* -- useful ways to combine different fragments of knowledge.

[Note 3] *Consciousness.* As I see it, "consciousness" phenomena can emerge from the operation of a "self-referent" mechanism when it tries to account for some of what it itself is doing. I doubt we possess any especially direct and powerful ways to do this, so we probably do it much as we understand anything else -- that is, by making and refining models that may never be particularly accurate. Technically, discussing such matters is messy because of the web of different meanings for "self-reference" itself. Should we call a system self-referent just because it operates on data derived from its own operation? It might be considered so if it can be seen as trying to describe itself. The self-reference of planning -- as when one says *"I shall do X"* -- is different from simply expecting to do X, because it entails (usually) subsidiary plans like *"I shall remain firm and not allow Y to cause me to ’change my mind’".* Should we call a system self-referent when, only by accident, a structure inside it happens to resemble (in an outside observer’s opinion) a larger-scale description of itself? In any case it seems quite clear that our psychological self-models are far from technically accurate -- yet serve a variety of social-heuristic-survival needs. In [12] I discussed how models that are technically quite wrong can still be useful; in particular it suggests an explanation of the illusion of free will.

In general, I see little reason to suppose that the "conscious" parts of our minds have any direct access to our own "top-level goals." -- or even to suppose that any such "top level" exists, i.e., that the mental society has a strict hierarchy. Even if there were, Evolution probably would have found a way to block the rest of the mind from being able to examine it too closely -- if only to keep the logical bull out of the teleological china shop. {10} In any case I suspect that if there is a top-level it consists of agencies access to which would reveal nothing intelligible (for reasons described in {12}). In [5] I discuss some possible mechanisms that might be "central" in thinking, because their use would be as limited, scarce resources. These might indeed play roles in our articulate, self-model formulations but, again, those models could be very unrealistic.
