[Note 9] Many of the ideas about the importance of discerning differences came as early as [14] and [15], but [8] had the first clear idea of a difference-network. More recently, in [16] Winston has considered using frames for more complex analogies. The serious study of "bugs" was perhaps first considered in the work of Papert on early education [17] and then in the doctoral theses of Sussman [18] and Goldstein [19].

[Note 10] *Defense.* Lewis Thomas remarks in [20] that philosophers and linguists *"are compelled to use as their sole research instrument the very apparatus they wish to study."* He recounts that, while listening to a proof of Godel's theorem: "just as I was taking it all in, I suddenly felt something like the flicking of a mercury wall switch and it all turned to nonsense in my head" and suggests -- presuming one can tell when this scientist-poet is serious -- that *there is a "scrambler in the brain, a protective device preserving the delicate center of the mechanism of language against tinkering and meddling, shielding the mind against information with which it has no intention of getting involved."* Perhaps he’s right.

[Note 11] *Spinach.* A reader mentioned that she heard this joke about *brocolli*, not mayonnaise. This is funnier, because it transfers a plausible mistake into an implausible context. In Freud’s version the mistake is already too silly: one *could* mistake spinach for brocolli, but not for mayonnaise. I suspect that Freud *transposed the wrong absurdity* when he determined to tell it himself later on. Indeed, he (p.139) seems particularly annoyed at this joke -- and well he might be if, indeed, he himself damaged it by spoiling the elegance of the frame-shift. I would not mention this were it not for the established tradition of advancing psychiatry by analyzing Freud’s own writings.

[Note 12] *Enjoyment.* As Freud demanded, we have to explain why humor is pleasant, yet is so often about unpleasant -- painful, disgusting, or forbidden matters. There is nothing really funny about most good jokes - except perhaps in the skill with which the content is disguised. Now, there is no shortage of explanations of how this reversal of sign might come about: the censor-energy theory, the "I’m glad it didn’t happen to me" theory, the minimizing the importance of reality theory, and so forth. Yet the question remains all the more important and difficult because, everyone supposing the matter to be obvious, no one seems to have proposed any sophisticated theories of *pleasure* itself -- so all those commonsense "mini-theories" seem built on sand.

What is pleasure, and why do we like it? It is not a tautology. Clearly pleasure involves a complex web concerned with: learning and goals; with activities one wants to continue and/or repeat; and with anticipations and rehearsals of such. What makes the issue elusive, I think, is that we "sense" pleasure only through an elaborately constructed illusion -- typical of our tendency to represent things to ourselves as though they were more coherent than they really are.

We indulge in such illusions even when we say the seemingly simplest things of the form *"I feel xxx"*. These exemplify a "single agent" concept of mind, an illusion of coherency that denies that within the mind different agencies play different roles at the same moment. For example,
