this communication must somehow engage that memory. In this section we propose that humor -- and more specifically, *laughter* -- is innately enabled to do this, too.

But first we digress to discuss an important methodological problem: *Why is it so hard to explain why jokes are funny?* Why, for that matter, is it so hard to say precisely what is a joke? We have already mentioned Wittgenstein's problem of defining "game": one can find no single quality common to all the different kinds of examples -- and one finds a similar problem in attempting to define "humor." *But we did not stop to ask why this is so.* One might suppose it a mere surface difficulty, and hope that we may yet find a single underlying structure from which all funny things spring -- some basic "grammar of humor," or "comical deep structure." Not so, I fear; when we look deeper for that underlying structure of humor we shall still find a vexing lack of unity. I argue that this is a consequence of the way things usually evolve in biology.

In mechanisms designed by plan, it is reasonable to ask about purpose or cause. What is the purpose of that beam in this house? Simple: to hold up this roof -- and, perhaps, to hold those walls apart. But, when we ask questions about structures created by evolution, we find that only rarely does one evolutionary increment serve a single purpose -- and rarely is one alone in serving any particular purpose. Behavior emerges from a network of interdependent mechanisms, and one cannot expect any compactly circumscribed theory (or mechanism) completely to "explain" any single surface component of behavior. What a theory *can* do, though, is to describe some fragment of that larger network of interacting subsystems.

Humor, like games, serves and exploits many different needs and mechanisms. It lacks sharp, natural boundaries because those underlying things themselves overlap and exploit one another. When we employ a *word* like "humor," one has the illusion of designating something sharper than this kind of complex web of relations among laughter, faulty reasoning, taboos and prohibitions, and unconscious suppressor mechanisms. But, I think the very clarity of words is itself a related illusion; as noted in {7}, language itself works only because oversimplification is more useful than realistic confusion -- that is, in real life, if not for thinking about psychology.

ROLES OF LAUGHTER: Consider what happens when a thought-situation comes to be perceived as funny or absurd: further reasoning is drowned in a flood of activity -- furious motions of thorax, abdomen, head, limbs and face, accompanied by loud barking, wheezing, and choking noises. To a Martian, an epileptic seizure would be less alarming. Adults, of course, can train themselves to suppress this, but that is another matter.

*Laughter disrupts reasoning:* The laughter reaction is so distracting as to keep the mind from proceeding further along the prohibited or ridiculous path it has started. Whatever that line of thought, the disruption prevents you from "taking it seriously," from acting upon it or considering its further logical consequences.

At the same time, laughter exercises another, complementary function.
