WHENCE THE RULES OF INFERENCE? *How do we know how to infer?* Most people believe that *if most A's are B's, and if most B's are C's, then most A's are C's.* Though false, this has great heuristic value, especially for children who encounter few exceptions. *Psychologically,* I see no great difference between heuristic and logical reasoning; deduction is "just another" kind of evidence. We firmly believe a deduced conclusion only when it seems plausible on other grounds as well. At one time, many philosophers held that faultless "laws of thought" were somehow inherent, a priori, in the very nature of mind. This belief was twice shaken in the past century; first when Russell and his successors showed how the logic men employ can be defective, and later when Freud and Piaget started to reveal the tortuous ways in which our minds actually develop.

After Russell observed that the seemingly frivolous *"Who shaves the Barber, who shaves everyone who does not shave himself?"* was a truly serious obstacle to formalizing common sense logic, he and others tried to develop new formalisms that avoided such problems -- by preventing the fatal self-references. But the proposed substitutes were much too complicated to serve for everyday use.

I am inclined to doubt that anything very resembling formal logic could be a good model for human reasoning. (The paper by Hewitt and Kornfeld might suggest a possible avenue of compromise [2].) In particular, I doubt that any logic that prohibits self-reference can be adequate for psychology: no mind can have enough power -- without the power to think about Thinking itself. Without Self-Reference it would seem immeasurably harder to achieve Self-Consciousness -- which, so far as I can see, requires at least some capacity to reflect on what it does. {3}

If Russell shattered our hopes for making a completely reliable version of commonsense reasoning, still we can try to find the islands of "local consistency," in which naive reasoning remains correct. It seems that only certain kinds of expressions lead to paradoxes and inconsistencies, and it seems worth taking some risks, gambling for greater power -- provided we can learn, over time, to avoid the most common disasters. We all know the legend of the great mathematician who, warned that his proof would lead to a paradox if he took one more step. He replied *"Ah, but I shall not take that step."* {4} One would miss the point to treat this as a "mere" joke. What it means, really, is that **we** build into our minds two complementary functions:

*We work to discover "islands of power" within which commonsense reasoning seems safe.*

*We work also to find and mark the unsafe boundaries of those islands.*

In civilized communities, guardians display warnings to tell drivers about sharp turns, skaters about thin ice. Similarly, our philosophers and mathematicians display paradigms -- like the Barber, the Tortoise, and the Liar -- to tell us where to stop -- and laugh. I suggest that when such paradigms are incorporated into the mind, they form intellectual counterparts to Freud's emotional censors: This would help explain why purely logical nonsense so often has the same humorous quality as do jokes about injury and discomfort -- the problem that bothered Freud. The cake-joke reminds us, somewhat obscurely, to avoid a certain kind of logical absurdity -- lest we do ourselves some vaguely understood cognitive harm. Hence our thesis: since we have no systematic way to avoid all the inconsistencies of commonsense logic, each person must find his own way by building a private
