[Note 4] *Non-monotonic logic.* I discussed these problems with logic very briefly in [4]. Doyle's 1980 thesis [11] has a very imaginative discussion of such matters. One might ask whether the safe regions are like separate islands. or is logic generally safe if we avoid scattered pitfalls.

[Note 5] *Confusion.* When a person can say "I'm confused," he is a large step beyond merely being confused because, presumably, he has gone on enough to have recognized a somewhat specific metapsychological condition.

[Note 6] *Familiar.* Schank [13] points out that it is only when one doesn't quite recognize something that one thinks "*that looks familiar*". When something is decisively recognized there is no such phenomenology; one notices the matching process only when the match is imperfect and strained.

[Note 7] *Ambiguity.* All but the most childish jokes have two or more meanings "condensed" into one expression or situation. It is commonplace to wonder about non-humorous ambiguities of words and phrases, and how the mind decides which thought is intended. It is not so often realized that *thoughts themselves can be ambiguous* -- because a (partial) mental state can be a precursor of many others, depending on the computational context within the mind. [5]

[Note 8] *Excuses.* This is oversimplified in many ways. Defaults are not mere conveniences; they are perhaps our most powerful means for making generalizations, because they activate whatever is "typical" of some class by activating the memory of a typical individual of that class. And even when they are not useful, such assumptions are usually innocuous -- provided that they are weakly enough attached so that they are easily displaced by "reality". However, this hypothetical default mechanism has many potential bugs of its own. In particular, one must not make mistakes about "supported-by" for all sorts of personal safety reasons. If there is no visible support *and* no intervening object then this is a levitation absurdity.

I suspect that *ethnic humor* exemplifies a larger-scale sociobiological bug that emerges from the frame mechanism. Why are nonsense jokes so often used also to deride alien social groups? A popular theory is that it provides an opportunity to display aggression, and no doubt this is true. But there may also be a more technical reason. I argue in [4] that *it is hard to understand a story about a person unless one is provided with a specific person-frame -- it does not matter how stereotyped.* Communication is simplified when the listener does not have to choose a frame for himself. Thus bigotry may emerge spontaneously as a side-effect of this circumstance of representation; when, for example one makes a joke about stupidity, it is psycho-computationally convenient to project it onto some stereotype -- preferably alien to avoid conflict with known reality. Obviously, this may become a runaway process, as that stereotype accumulates undeserved absurdities. Sooner or later one loses track of the humorous origin of that structure. It will be hard to eradicate prejudice without understanding the importance (and value) of stereotypes in ordinary thinking.
