collection of "cognitive censors" to suppress the kinds of mistakes he has discovered in the past.

HEURISTIC CONTROL OF LOGIC: *How do we know what next to do?* I once tutored a student having trouble with middle-school geometry. I began to explain the axioms, and how proofs were structured. *"I understand all that,"* he said, *"only I was sick the day the teacher explained how to find the proofs."*

It is not enough just to know the principles of reasoning; one must know also when to apply them. We each know millions of facts, and perhaps millions of rules of inference. Which to apply to what, and when? There is a basic problem of direction, of not meandering, lest one aimlessly derive billions of inferences, all perfectly logical but none relevant to any goal. First, some "plan" is required. Next, one must avoid circling -- returning to the same place again and again. Finally, to avoid confusion, one needs an administrative structure to keep track of what one is doing, and why.

The new science called Artificial Intelligence is concerned with just such issues of the efficiency and effectiveness of Reason -- matters rarely discussed in Logic or Philosophy, which focus on verifying that proofs are valid, or that arguments are sound, rather than on how proofs are discovered. Much has been learned, in "AI", about how to avoid excessive meandering and confusion, by using goal-structures and plans -- techniques for insuring progress. Using such methods, some modern computer programs can thread their ways through some quite complicated situations.

Nevertheless, the problem of meandering is certain to re-emerge once we learn how to make machines that examine themselves to formulate their own new problems. Questioning one’s own "top-level" goals always reveals the paradox-oscillation of ultimate purpose. How could one decide that a goal is worthwhile -- unless one already knew what it is that is worthwhile? How could one decide when a question is properly answered -- unless one knows how to answer that question itself? Parents dread such problems and enjoin kids to *not take them seriously.* We learn to suppress those lines of thoughts, to "not even think about them" and to dismiss the most important of all as nonsensical, *viz.* the joke *"Life is like a bridge." "In what way?" "How should I know?"* Such questions lie beyond the shores of sense and in the end it is Evolution, not Reason, that decides who remains to ask them.

II. CENSORSHIP

Just like taboos in human societies, certain things must not be thought inside the Mind. The best way for a child to learn not to do a certain bad thing would be to learn *not to even think of it.* But isn’t that like trying "not to think of a monkey"? Contrast two ways: (i) suppress an idea already in the mind or (ii) prevent it from being thought in the first place:

*(i) Stop thinking that!*  
*(ii) Don’t even (or ever) think that!*
