these cause one, "by default" to assume a certain kind of shoe or chair.

The concept of default goes much further. When one sees a person in a sitting posture then, even if every part of his chair is hidden from view, one will pseudo-see a chair under him. Unless your attention is drawn to the fact, you never notice that no chair was actually seen. This is because the "sitting" frame includes a "must-be-supported-by" sub-frame terminal, and this is attached to some "typical" chair-frame, for its *default assignment*. {8}

The chair-frame that is selected can depend, however, on the context for default assignments are weak and easy to "displace". If there are other chairs around, the invisible chair will be assumed to be like one of them. If the scene is set in a park, then a park-bench frame might be activated to serve as default. If one then noticed an arm-chair arm, the system would replace the weakly-attached bench-frame by one that better suits what was seen -- and one now "sees" an armchair.

According to the theory in [4] this is done very swiftly because the "corresponding" terminals of related frames are already pre-connected to one another. This makes it easy to change a faltering interpretation or a frustrated expectation. Shifting from one related frame to another should be so fast and efficient as to be imperceptible to introspection. This is why one so easily recognizes any chair as "a chair", even though particular chairs are so different from one another. I do not suggest that all this happens by magic; *the interconnecting network is constructed over a lifetime of experience*. In [5] I discuss how new frames arise usually as revised versions of older ones, bringing those "common terminals" along with them. In [6] are more details, but one must read between the lines of that paper because it does not use the terminology of frames.

Frames and frame-systems are used at conceptual as well as perceptual levels, and there we find other kinds of *frame-systems* -- families of interconnected frames -- that are not transformed so easily, hence more effort is noticed. Consider, for example, Wittgenstein’s paradigmatic question about defining "game." [7] The problem is that *there is no property common to all games*, so that the most usual kinds of definition fail. Not every game has a ball, nor two competing teams; even, sometimes, there is no notion of "winning." In my view, the explanation is that a word like "game" points to a somewhat diffuse "system" of prototype frames, among which some frame-shifts are easy, but others involve more strain. The analogy between football and chess is strained only a little, more with solitaire, and so on. Shifting from one familiar kind of kitchen-chair to another is imperceptible, but changing a park-bench to an arm-chair would be strain enough to "surprise".

Now I propose that much of commonsense logic itself is based on learning to make shifts between frames that have terminals in common. For example, if a situation fits a frame like *A implies B*, and *B implies C*, a simple frame-shift re-represents it as *A implies C*. Seen in this light, Freud’s cake story appears to display some sort of incorrect-logic script in which each consecutive pair of sentences matches some such tried-and-true kind of reasoning step.

I presume that when we "understand" this sort of story, we represent it in our minds as a series of pairs of overlapping assignments of things to terminals of such frames. And somewhere along the
