pubertal change in a brain mechanism -- and may illustrate an important way for genetic control to affect cognitive development.

More precisely, the conjecture is that (i) phonetic learning occurs in some particular brain structure whose capacity to learn new discriminations is (ii) shut off by a genetic mechanism linked to pubertal changes. *It is linked to puberty because that is the biological moment when one's role shifts from learning to teaching.* Its "evolutionary purpose" is to prevent the parent from learning the child's language; this makes the child learn the adult language.

After all, a young parent's principal goal is not language instruction -- it is communication. If it were easy for the parent to adopt the child's idiosyncratic phonology, that's what would happen! But then the parent would learn the child's language -- and the child would have less drive, or opportunity, to learn the adult's. And, over the span of generations, it would be hard for any common social language to develop at all!

When we talk of innate vs. acquired aspects of development, we must face the problem of encoding for structures whose acquisition cannot be genetically anticipated -- e.g., details of cognitive or linguistic structure. Our idea is first to look instead for ways for genetics to affect directly the "acquisition envelopes" -- *the control structures that mediate how things are learned.* The foregoing hypothesis illustrates, I think, one way that brain genetics might circumvent the complexity of devising direct constraints on the representations of not-yet-acquired cognitive structures.
