one part may be rewarded for disciplining another. Yet if, as I suppose, the pleasure phenomenon does indeed involve a complex web of different activities, we still need to explain why they seem phenomenologically to have so much in common.

Here is one conjecture: what was initially common to all those activities was only a metapsychological feature -- *they were just the ones most subject to being disturbed by the "noise" of other members of the Society of Mind.* This would create an ecological niche, within that Society, for the emergence of a special brain center that, when activated by any of them, tends to depress all the others. (One does not so welcome the offer of one kind of pleasure, while involved with another.) Once such a center comes into existence, that *very fact* would facilitate the formation, in a growing mind, of a concept or belief in the commonality of the mechanisms associated with it.

A second conjecture: such a centralization would better enable each member of the mental society to be able to tell when it has done something to satisfy a need of another -- -- without having to understand which one, or any of the what or why of it. But note how my use of the word "satisfy" betrays my intention by intimating that same unintended uniformity. It is perhaps this betrayal that fools us all into thinking it a tautology, unworthy of study, to ask "*why do we like pleasure*".

Seymour Papert has suggested to me yet another, more sociobiological conjecture about how evolution might have gathered these ingredients together and provided them with a single, common, output. It would make it easier for a mother to tell when she has satisfied her child’s need of the moment, without having to learn specific signs for each such need. Similarly, this would help one person tell when he is convincing another, and so forth. All that is accomplished by attaching a suitable collection of different internal processes to one single "consummatory act" -- to use Tinbergen’s term.

[Note 13] My daughter Julie watched "yields truth" for a while and then said, *"well, it’s not exactly a paradox, but it does keep saying that it’s true, back and forth."*

[Note 14] *Displacement.* Lorenz [21] and Tinbergen [22] frequently observed peculiar, seemingly pointless behaviors when an animal is poised between fight and flight. What better time to consider negotiating? So, one might *a priori* expect to find ambiguities in the primordial germs of social sign-systems.

[Note 15] I don’t mean all this to seem pessimistic. It is not necessary, in understanding something, to have all one knows about it active in the mind at one time. One *does* need to have access to fragments of maps, at various levels of detail, of what one knows. The thesis of Kuipers [23], which proposes a theory of how a person’s knowledge of a city might be represented in computational terms, might be re-interpreted as a metaphor for how minds might deal with their own knowledge.
