to enhance or suppress. Similarly *play*, (commonly seen as "mere") is often also an exploration of variations on a larger scale. Many other everyday activities can so be seen as ways to learn to avoid bugs and mistakes.

I know a young child whose sense of humor tends toward jokes like "*what if the spoon were rubber,*" apparently observing that a flexible spoon would be absurd because the food would fall out of it. Is he enforcing a "must-be-rigid" property of some spoon-frame, or is he censoring the use of some spoon-frame that lacks the property? The humor-behavior of children also needs more study.

III. MEANING AND METAPHOR

*Two villagers decided to go bird-hunting. They packed their guns and set out, with their dog, into the fields. Near evening, with no success at all, one said to the other, "We must be doing something wrong". "Yes", agreed his friend. "Perhaps we're not throwing the dog high enough."*

When you want to fasten a screw and therefore reach for a certain screwdriver, your mind has chosen to see that screwdriver as a screw-driver; you could have seen it as a kind of dull knife, or as a hammer without a head. When we see something only in its "intended" aspect, we are "confusing the thing with itself." As Korzybski [3] intoned, "*whatever a thing is, it is not*". {6}, {7}

FRAMES: I suggested in [4] that perceptions are ordinarily interpreted by the mind in terms of previously acquired description-structures called *Frames*. A frame is a way to represent a stereotyped situation, like being in a certain kind of room, or going to a certain kind of party. Attached to each frame are several kinds of information; some about how to use the frame, some about what one might expect to happen next, some about what to do if those expectations are not confirmed, and so forth. This theory was proposed to explain the speed and virtual absence of noticeable phenomenology in perceiving and thinking, and here I propose to sketch just enough of it to explain some features, and some "bugs," of reasoning. Then we can return to unconscious censorship and error-correction.

Each frame includes, among other things, a variety of *terminals* to which other frames are attached. Thus a chair-frame specifies that a (certain kind of) chair has a *seat*, a *back*, and four legs. The details of these would be described, not in the chair-frame itself, but in other frames attached to its terminals. Each frame includes also a set of features which, if enough of them are present, may activate the Frame. So, when you see enough parts of a chair, these will activate one of your chair-frames which, in turn, will activate the sub-frames attached to its terminals. These, then, will "look for" other chair-parts that were not recognized at first -- because of being unusual, or partially hidden from view, or whatever. Finally, if some elements required by the frame are not seen at all -- one rarely sees all the legs of a chair, and *never* all the sides of a box -- the missing elements are supplied by *default*. This is easy because most terminals of most frames have certain sub-frames already attached as *default* assignments. When one reads in a story about some shoe or some chair,
