4. *The consequences of intellectual failure are manifest in one's own head, while social failures involve other people.* Intellect and Affect seem less different once we theorize that the "*cognitive unconscious*" considers faulty reasoning to be just as "naughty" as the usual "Freudian" wishes.

5. *Humor evolved in a social context.* Its forms include graciously disarming ways to instruct others about inappropriate behavior and faulty reasoning. This deviousness makes the subject more confusing.

Our theory emphasizes the importance of *knowledge about knowledge* and, particularly, aspects of thinking concerned with recognizing and suppressing *bugs* -- ineffective or destructive thought processes. When seen in this light, much humor that at first seems pointless, or mysterious, becomes more understandable. {1}

I. PROBLEMS OF COMMON SENSE REASONING

When you tell a young child "*I am telling a lie*" then, if he is old enough to reason so, he will think: "*If that is false, then he's not telling a lie. But, then it must be true. But then, it must be a lie, for it says so. But then ---*". And so on, back and forth.

A child might find this situation disagreeable for several reasons. It challenges the belief that propositions are always either true or false. It threatens to propagate through his knowledge-structure, creating other inconsistencies. And he can make no progress when his mind returns again and again to the same state. {2} Common sense can go awry in endless ways. Beliefs can be wrong from the start, one can make mistakes from each step to the next, and one can wander aimlessly, getting nowhere. But before we discuss these, we should observe what actually happens when you say things like "*this statement is false.*" Often the listener first seems puzzled, then troubled, and finally laughs. "*That's funny,*" he says. "*Tell me another liar joke*".

**THE PROBLEM OF TRUTH:** *How do we know where to begin?* The conclusions of even the best reasoning can be no better than its premises. In mathematics, this is of little concern (because one cares more where premises lead than where they come from). But in real life, few propositions are perfectly trustworthy. What does one do when an accepted "fact" turns out false? One of my children was once entranced by an ornamental fish-shaped bowl with four short legs. After a while she announced, somewhat uncertainly: "*Some fish don't have legs.*"

We never know anything for certain. What should one do upon reaching a conclusion that appears false -- erase all the assumptions? When a long held belief turns false, should one erase all that has been deduced from it? When an acquaintance once tells a lie, should one reject everything else he ever said? There is no simple, single rule: each person must find his own ways to maintain his knowledge about his knowledge. [1]
