I make no plea for this particular scenario, only that something of this general sort must have happened, in which several pre-existing complexes grew together. They each brought along a variety of older interactions with other systems and purposes -- that were exploited to produce the puzzling combinations of conciliation, aggression, sexuality, and nonsense that are now mixed together in humor. If other mental structures also share this kind of tangled ethological ancestry, then a mind grown this way must now resemble a great spider-web, in which many threads of different biological purpose intersect in many nodes of different multi-purpose mechanisms. If so, the goals of psychological theories must be to describe different fragments of that web -- each to make a map of some few of those threads and nodes.

By a curious coincidence, our *theories* of how minds work must probably have themselves this same peculiar, web-like character -- albeit for a different reason. For (I think) the only way a person can understand anything very complicated is to understand it at each moment only locally -- like the spider itself, seeing but a few threads and crossings from each viewpoint. Strand by strand, we build within our minds these webs of theory, from hard-earned locally intelligible fragments. The mind-spider’s theory is correct to the extent that the model in his head corresponds to the mechanism in his head. {15}

Finally it is probably futile to ask *precisely* what humor is. Korzybski’s injunction applies here especially: the word "humor" points to no real thing. Instead, in each different person’s mind it points to a slightly different web-model. We each use -- and mean -- the word a little differently -- just as we each laugh at different jokes. Now I do not mean to hint that the problem is unreal, or even that it is especially incomprehensible. I only want to suggest that "humor" may be less a Thing-Part of the mind, and more a Thing-Theory in the mind. This makes it no less worthy of study, but one must be clear about what one is doing. If we get confused between making theories about theories and making theories about things, we may spin forever. {16}

TIME CONSTANTS: According to our thesis, familiar types of jokes should seem less funny, because the censors have learned more about them. Why, then, do some kinds of jokes remain so persistently funny? People tire of old nonsense jokes, but not of jokes about forbidden aspects of sex. Does this falsify our theory? Not necessarily; it may mean only that the censors for this particular subject are much slower to learn and to change. Is that plausible?

Most psychological theories of our day -- both popular and professional -- seem to suppose that all memories are made of the same stuff, stored in the same huge container. (I argue otherwise in [6].) But, on reflection, we see that some memories *ought* to be less changeable than others. Contemplate, for example, the plight of a mother with a new infant, that will demand her time and attention for several years. Why doesn’t she wonder "*Why am I doing this,*" or "*what could this baby do for me to justify such a sacrifice.*" One might argue "*To preserve the race,*" or "*because you will love it,*" or "*because it will repay you some day,*" but these would hardly convince any rational person; raising a child is not, let’s face it, a notably sensible enterprise.

Conventional wisdom recognizes that love is far from rational, and holds that an "instinctive" attachment is somehow created and somehow protected from casual alteration. Clearly so, but
