*Laughter focusses attention:* While disrupting further reasoning, laughter takes a firm grip on the thought itself, holding up the absurdity in sharp focus. Perhaps the joke-thought is given full attention, holding the incongruity in some "short term memory" -- so that "censor-learning" agency can absorb it.

Thus "humor" might serve to mediate the process in which the censors learn, much as "pleasure" is often supposed to mediate ordinary learning. {12}

EVOLUTION OF HUMOR: How might all this have evolved? We conjecture that it happened while our evolving minds passed through stages of increasing ability to reflect -- to think not merely about the physical problems at hand, but about how we should apply our mental resources to them; in a word, when we were learning to *plan. In order to make realistic plans, we had to learn to take account of what we could make our minds do.*

This ability could not have emerged all at once. There must have been intermediate steps -- such as the appearance of multi-level schemes like the one suggested above, in which an A-mind is monitored by a B-mind. Eventually we became able to symbolize and manipulate *representations* of plans, and this allowed the first direct references to our own mental activities. Now, suddenly, we could do such tricks as to relate statements to their own quotations, and make propositions that (for better or for worse) could discuss their own truth -- as in Quine's "*yields truth*" tour de force. {13}

In any case, once able to accomplish intricate chains of reasoning, we became vulnerable to new kinds of bugs: faulty variable bindings, subtle changes of sense, and more obscurely circular logic. This same epoch probably saw also the emergence of Language for social communication, which also converged toward using more concise and manipulable symbolic representations. And; because we could not weaken the expressiveness of symbol-manipulation without losing its power, we had to evolve those censor memories. Of course, what actually happened was surely not this simple, but we had better return again to our speculations about laughter.

*Laughter's facial component suggests that it evolved in connection with social communication.* It appears to be derived (ethologically) in part from a "conciliatory" expression, but it includes also a baring of teeth that suggests a defensive-aggressive mixture. {14}

*Laughter's bizarre vocal component also suggests social functions that combine ancestral "releasers" for both conciliation and aggression.* Perhaps it came somehow to serve as a signal to induce another person to stop whatever he was doing: whether because dangerous, pointless, objectionable, ridiculous, or otherwise forbidden.

*Later, this function became internalized.* If a person could feel and hear himself laugh, grimace, and shake, why not exploit these side-effects also to make one's own self to stop doing something ridiculous or prohibited? Perhaps, literally, men first learned to laugh at their own mistakes, and later learned to censure themselves in silence.
