particularly popular distinction, however useful in everyday life, does more harm than good in psychology. [6]

In any case, the Affect-Intellect distinction would lose much of its force if Reason, too, employed a powerful "cognitive unconscious" -- and that is exactly what I shall argue: that Intellect, too, has its own buried secrets. In Freud's scenario, the ego develops largely in contexts of fear of deprivation, punishment or mutilation; of anxiety about uncertainty and insecurity; terror of losing the esteem or person of parent or attachment-figure. New families of censors -- new domains of repression -- are created when wishes conflict enough with reality to justify attempting to keep them from becoming conscious.

Does anything like that happen in the intellectual sphere? One might suppose not, because a necessary element is missing -- that of a beloved -- or punitive -- authority figure. However, while Freudian taboos originate from outside, the child needs no external authority-figure to point out his gross cognitive failures; he needs no parent to scold him, when an encounter with paradox throws his mind into a frightening cyclone. The momentary loss of mental control should provoke anxiety in its own right.

But, one might ask, if we bear the scars of frightening cognitive experiences, why do they not reveal themselves (like the affect-laden ones) in nightmares, compulsions, phobias, and the like? Perhaps they do; it would not show in the interpretations of present-day psychiatry. But every teacher knows (and fears) the rigid inhibition of children’s cognitive phobias: *"I don’t want to learn this; I couldn’t possibly do that"*. Let us speculate on how such fears might originate. Consider the paradox of *Nearness*: Every child must once have said to himself:

*Hmmm. Ten is almost Eleven. And Eleven is nearly Twelve. And so on; Ninety-Nine is nearly a Hundred. But then Ten must be almost a Hundred!*

To an adult, this is not even a stupid joke. But we each must once have thought something like: "there is obviously something wrong here. Is it in my premises or in my logic? Well, what’s my premise? Obviously, that *"if A is near B, and if B is near C, then A must be near C."* Nothing wrong with that. So there must be something wrong with my logic. But I’m only using something like: *"If A implies B, and if B implies C, then A implies C."* "How could that be wrong? No way!"

To be sure, not everyone remembers such experiences as frightening. In fact, *ad hominem*, readers of essays like this one would more likely complain that they *like* such problems and cannot see them as "traumatic." No matter, such readers are just the ones who have found ways to transform -- what did Freud call it? -- to *sublimate* such problems into constructive thinking about thinking. In any case, in one private manner or another, everyone somehow comes to deal with such problems, and I see only one practical way: we must each grow for ourselves some structure, of large complexity and little elegance, to tell us when --and when not -- to trust each such pattern of inference. For example, we each learn never to repeat a *near* deduction more than a few times in any one argument. Furthermore, the accumulation of such experiences leads us eventually to realize that this is not peculiar to "near" alone: perhaps one shouldn’t use any inference method too many
