## NOTES

[Note 0] Freud seemed somewhat puzzled by "nonsense jokes" and suggested, to explain the worst of them, that they "give the teller the pleasure of misleading and annoying, by rousing the expectation of a joke and then frustrating the listener" -- who in turn -- "damps down his annoyance by determining to tell them himself later on." The enjoyment of nonsense, he goes on, might also reflect a wish to return to a childhood of relaxed, careless thought in which one "*puts words together without regard to the condition that they should make sense, in order to obtain from them the pleasurable effect of rhythm or rhyme. Little by little he is forbidden this enjoyment, till all that remains to him are significant combinations of words. But when he is older attempts still emerge at disregarding the restrictions that have been learned.*" [0, p.125] In connection with alcoholic cheerfulness, Freud recounts a pun: "It is most instructive to observe how standards of joking sink as spirits rise" -- and later -- "*the grown man becomes a child, who finds pleasure in having the course of his thoughts freely at his disposal without paying regard to the compulsion of logic.*" [0, p.127]

Freud's later image of childhood was different, with more emphasis on fears, frustrations, and the oppression of a growing self-image that emerges from internal models of authority and attachment figures. In the present essay's conception of the growth of logic in the child, I suggest a comparable self-image of Rationality -- only here with less need for an external human model, because confusion automatically imposes its own sanctions.

It was not quite accurate to say that Freud never returned to the subject, for in 1927 [9] he published a brief essay in which, still regarding jokes as a source of pleasure, he now portrays humor (in contrast) as a way to ward off suffering. The super-ego, like a parent, comforts the frightened childlike ego, repudiating reality by suggesting that however dangerous the world may seem, it is nothing but a game for children. Freud is troubled, though, that this seems out of character for the superego; perhaps the thesis of this essay resolves that. In any case, all this impinges on the area of "adult theory" that I hesitate to discuss here, for the reasons noted in {16}.

[Note 1] *The Society of Mind.* Some of the ideas in this essay originated in my earlier work with Seymour Papert, especially the ideas about the construction of the mind through exploitation of different agencies by one another. The present paper, along with [4], [5], [6] and [12] are all related, but I have yet to attempt a single, comprehensive account. The key idea is to reject the conventional view of the mind as a Single Agent that either thinks of something or doesn't; rather, the mind is composed of many smaller minds, themselves composed of yet smaller ones. It would mean little to talk about what these separately "think", for each becomes specialized to perform functions meaningful only vis-a-vis those few others that it has connections with. The phenomenological observations that a "person" makes about himself emerge in a very indirect way from those interactions.

One (of many) reasons to consider decentralized psychological theories is that they seem potentially better able to provide for mechanisms that exploit *knowledge about knowledge* than
