we must know more about those "somehow"s. This maternal self-questioning doesn’t usually go too far, perhaps because we are protected by the web of personal pleasure and social compulsion surrounding child-rearing. But the problem is real, and there are occasional (and invariably concealed) tragedies in which a young mother’s frustration overwhelms her attachment.

The simplest way might be to build attachment into a special kind of memory that, once established, tends to persist for several years. After all, long time-constants characterize other aspects of attachment. Some persons always choose different partners of similar appearance; as though unable to alter a fixed stereotype. Others find themselves in the grip of undesired infatuations, that reason declares inappropriate. And most familiar is the seemingly inexorable time-span of mourning -- the year or two it takes to adjust to separation or loss. All these could be by-products of adaptations of older mechanisms whose slowness was/is of value in our sociobiological evolution. {17}

Perhaps one can also interpret in this light the prolonged, mourning-like depression associated with sexual assault, presuming that the momentary association of violence with sexuality somehow impairs the entire attachment machinery. The large time-constants make recovery slow, from a profound disturbance of normal social attachments. No matter if the victim manages to view the incident "rationally;" this does not automatically restore those sluggish mechanisms to their normal state, and one must suffer the prolonged functional deprivation of an important mind-part.

All this suggests that the curious robustness of sexual humor may reflect only that the associated censors are among the "slow learners" of the mind, like retarded children. Perhaps they indeed *are* retarded children-- the nearly static remnants of our own early selves. They change only slowly, and our tireless enjoyment of certain censured subjects may be a side-effect of that circumstance.

So, we finally conclude: jokes are not really funny at all, but reflect the most serious of concerns; the pursuit of sobriety through the suppression of the absurd.

Cambridge, Mass.  
May-July, 1980
