way, in the cake story, there is an improper assignment-change. Is it the payment moving from the cake to the drink? Is it a pivot between "owns" and "possesses?" Each listener must make his own theory of what is wrong -- and devise his own way to avoid this confusion in the future. Some people will do better at this than others.

METAPHOR: All intelligent persons also possess some larger-scale frame-systems whose members seemed at first impossibly different -- like water with electricity, or poetry with music. Yet many such analogies -- along with the knowledge of how to apply them -- are among our most powerful tools of thought. They explain our ability sometimes to to see one thing -- or idea -- as though it were another, and thus to apply knowledge and experience gathered in one domain to solve problems in another. It is thus that we transfer knowledge via the paradigms of Science. We learn to see gases and fluids as particles, particles as waves, and waves as envelopes of growing spheres.

How are these powerful connections discovered? For the simple ones, there is no great problem: some frames are easily recognized as similar because their terminals accept the same sorts of entities; these could be located and classified by simple algorithms, e.g., searches for best match. As for those most subtle, once-in-a-lifetime insights, whose analogical powers are hidden deep in the procedural structures that operate on them, we hardly need a general theory to account for them since -- like favorable evolutionary mutations -- few are ever discovered by any single individual, and those can be thereafter transmitted through the culture. In any case, putting aside the origins of those rare, greatest insights, each individual must have his own ways to build new connections amongst his frames. I will contrast particular methods against general methods, arguing that the two have problems that seem somewhat opposite in character -- that the errors of "particular" methods can be managed additively, while bugs in the "general" methods must be repaired subtractively. This last point will eventually bring us back to censors.

PARTICULAR ANALOGIES: In the course of thinking, we use different frames from one moment to the next. But frequently one of the active frames will fail -- "that’s not a door, only a big window." Winston, in [8] suggests that whenever such an error is (somehow) detected, described, and corrected, we can attach to the failing frame a "pointer" to some other frame that has been found to work in this circumstance. The pointer must contain, of course, a description of the failure circumstance. A family of frames connected in such a way is called a *difference network*. {9} We can explain [4] the definition difficulty (e.g., that of defining "game") by supposing that such words point not to any single frame, but into such a network.

Any such link between two frames implies a generalization of the form *"A’s are like B’s, except for D"*. Thus, such a link is a fragment of an analogy. Of course, like any generalization, it will likely soon fail again and need refinement. Winston’s thesis [8] suggests ways to do this. The important point here is that, particular analogies discovered in the course of experience, can be remembered by adding *positive*, active links between frames.

GENERAL ANALOGY METHODS: What if one is confronted with a novel situation that does *not* arouse any particular frame? Then, it makes sense to try some "general" method, e.g., to compare the situation to some large class of frames, and, select the one that "best fits." Such a
