It is easy to begin to make a type (i) censor: wait for the specified "bad" event to happen, and then suppress it. But how does one prevent it from recurring? It seems harder to begin to make a type (ii) censor, because it must be able to recognize the repressed thought's Precursors --- but it is easier to see what to do next, since each Precursor usually leads to several options, and suppressing one still leaves the others. So we shall discuss only the second censor-type.

So, our censor-builder has to learn to recognize Precursors -- mind-brain states that precede a recognizable (and, here, to be prohibited) activity. To do this, it will need a short term memory (to remember what *just* happened) and a long term memory (to store the result of learning). The latter may eventually become quite large, because a prohibited event may have many different precursors. In any case, a experienced type (ii) censor can recognize its joke by the situation and need not wait for the punch line. A type (i) censor makes you wait till the comedian finishes: only then can you complain *"Oh, I've heard that one before!"*

To place these in a larger framework, Let’s consider a simple "two-brain" theory. An "A-brain" has sensory inputs from the world, and motor outputs to the world. The B-brain’s inputs come from the interior of A -- so B can perceive "A-states" --- and its outputs go into A, so B can affect activities in A. Thus, B can "see" what is happening inside A, and act to influence it, just as A can "see" and affect what happens in the world. B need not -- and probably can not -- know what A-events "mean," vis-a-vis the world, but B is in a position to recognize such metapsychological conditions such as A being "meandering, circling, or confused." {5}

When a B-censor acts, it must disturb the A-brain so as to suppress the undesired activity. (It would be even better for B to remember, from past events, which is a good way to go, but that is outside this essay’s concern.) In any case, the point is that precursor-sensitive censors can do their work *before* the problems that they evade actually arise. Probably, also, they can do this so quickly and gently as to produce no noticeable mental phenomenology. This would explain why censors are (in the) unconscious.

The censorship theory explains why a joke is not so funny if you’ve heard it before; this is because a new censor has been constructed, or an old one extended. Freud touches on "novelty" as a component of humor, but never dwells on why old jokes get few laughs. I presume that he simply considered it too obvious to mention, that censors are learners.

How big must the censor memory be, to protect us from naive reasoning mistakes? Probably not so large for formal logic, considering how rarely we discover a new paradox. But for avoiding nonsense in general, we might accumulate millions of censors. For all we know, this "negative meta-knowledge" -- about patterns of thought and inference that have been found defective or harmful -- may be a large portion of all we know.

Consider the activities called *play* and *practice*. The insensitive learning theories of behavioristic psychology regard *play* not at all, and see practice as reinforcing something repetitive. But *practice* (I conjecture) is often far from mere repetition and refinement of the same thing; often it is exploratory, testing out a skill’s minute variations and perturbations -- and learning which of them
