INTRODUCTION

*A gentleman entered a pastry-cook's shop and ordered a cake; but he soon brought it back and asked for a glass of liqueur instead. He drank it and began to leave without having paid. The proprietor detained him. "You've not paid for the liqueur." "But I gave you the cake in exchange for it." "You didn't pay for that either." "But I hadn't eaten it".*  
--- from Freud (1905), [0]

In trying to classify humorous phenomena, Sigmund Freud asks whether this should be called a joke, *"for the fact is we do not yet know in what the characteristic of being a joke resides."* Let us agree that some of the cake-joke's humor is related to a logical absurdity -- leaving aside whether it is in the logic itself, or in keeping track of it. Later Freud goes on to ask what is the status of a "knife without a blade which has no handle?" This absurdity has a different quality; some representation is being misused -- like a frame without a picture.

Freud, who never returned to the subject after writing his 1905 book on the theory of jokes {0}, suggested that "censors" in the mind form powerful, unconscious barriers that make it difficult to think "forbidden" thoughts. But jokes can elude these censors -- to create the pleasure of unearned release of psychic energy, which is discharged in the form of laughter. He explains why jokes tend to be compact and condensed, with double meanings: this is to fool the childishly simple-minded censors, who see only innocent surface meanings and fail to penetrate the disguise of the forbidden wishes.

But Freud’s theories do not work as well for humorous nonsense as for humorous aggression and sexuality. {0} In this essay I try to show how these different forms of humor can be seen as much more similar, once we make certain observations about the nature of commonsense reasoning. Here is our thesis:

1. *Common sense logic is too unreliable for practical use.* It cannot be repaired, so we must learn to avoid its most common malfunctions. Humor plays a special role in learning and communicating about such matters.

2. *It is not enough to detect errors in reasoning; one must anticipate and prevent them.* We embody much of our knowledge about how to do this in the form of "censors" that suppress unproductive mental states. This is why humor is so concerned with the prohibited.

3. *Productive thinking depends on knowing how to use Analogy and Metaphor.* But analogies are often false, and metaphors misleading. So the "cognitive unconscious" must suppress inappropriate comparisons. This is why humor is so concerned with the nonsensical.
