Mulken, 2017). We observe the presence of an exclamation mark (Attardo 2000) together with the emphatic discourse marker *Occhio* (Eng. ‘Pay attention/hey’). These linguistic and textual elements, which support the humorous interpretation, belong to the Language Knowledge Resource, covering all aspects of the text’s verbal formulation (Attardo & Raskin, 1991). From a communicative perspective, (2) can be classified as aggressive humor, with the target of the humorous attack – the “butt” of the humorous text (Attardo, 1994) – being the Italian politician Matteo Salvini.

Therefore, SO was the criterion adopted in the annotation task to distinguish tweets containing humor from the others. In this study, the remaining five knowledge resources stay in the background — an outcome that reflects their conceptual nature. As Attardo (2020: 138) noted, each knowledge resource may be thought of as a collection of tools to analyze a specific aspect of a humorous text.

Additionally, GTVH accounts for register humor, that is a type of “humor caused by incongruity originating in the clash between two registers” (Attardo, 1994: 230–231). Each register and code (i.e., language varieties associated with a specific situation, topic, social role, or social aspect) activates a script that can be in contrast with a script activated by another register. The use of registers as triggers of humor is well described by Attardo (1994: 230–253) and Burger and van Mulken (2017).

### Humor Functions: A Taxonomy

This section outlines the communicative functions of humor, namely the effects and goals the writer pursues through humorous segments (Attardo, 1994: 322–330; Martin et al., 2003). The communicative functions of humor were identified drawing on Stewart (2011), Mendiburo-Seguel et al. (2022), and recent pragmatics research on implicit meanings in political discourse on Twitter (Garassino et al., 2022). Therefore, five functions were identified, i.e., Self-deprecating humor, Aggressive humor, Affiliative humor, Defensive humor, (Self-)Enhancing humor. For each of these functions, we provide a description, accompanied by an example.

Self-deprecating (SDP): the politician humorously targets themselves or their own group/party by referring to real or stereotypical flaws, errors, or shortcomings (Martin et al., 2003). See (3), where Orlando offered a mock admission of guilt.

(3) A. Orlando: *@utente1 Bisogna difendere Blair? Ho sbagliato anche stavolta! Sorry!*

@user1 Should we defend Blair? I was wrong again this time! Sorry!

Aggressive (AGGR): humor directed at attacking or mocking individuals, ideas, political parties, or groups. Such humor can enhance the speaker’s image by presenting them as more intelligent or dominant (Billig, 2005). Consider (4), where Serracchiani used AGGR to criticize, via irony, the actions of the right-wing coalition (represented by two politicians, Meloni and Salvini, who have very different opinions on sanctions against Russia).
