### Prompt Creation

The prompts that were used to gather data from the two LLMs followed a *few-shot* prompting strategy (Brown et al., 2020), which is a prompt that provides the model with several examples, enabling it to generalize patterns with minimal data. Specifically, the prompt included examples of Italian political tweets that were not part of the main analysis dataset. The prompts are available in the online Appendix.

For the first research question (RQ1), the initial prompt provided the models with a definition of humor (see “Humorous vs. Non-humorous Tweets” section), along with several examples illustrating what qualifies as humorous or non-humorous according to the definition. The second prompt fine-tuned the information already provided to the LLMs with the help of further examples (each potentially associated with a different pragmatic function of humor). The third prompt presented the 200 target examples from the corpus in batches of ten, to avoid exceeding prompt length limits (see also Yu et al., 2024), for classification.

A similar prompting strategy was used for the second research question (RQ2). The prompts for RQ2 were more complex, as they aimed to instruct the models to identify the communicative functions of humor using categories examined in “Humor Functions: A Taxonomy” section.

## Analysis

### Quantitative Analysis

#### The Distribution of Humor and Humor Functions

In this section, we explore the distribution of humorous versus non-humorous tweets as well as the distribution of communicative functions, based on annotations provided by the EXP annotator. This choice is justified by the fact that EXP serves as the benchmark against which we will evaluate the performance of both human and LLM annotators in “Inter-rater Reliability” section.

Based on EXP’s annotation, 90 tweets were selected as humorous and 110 as non-humorous. As shown in Fig. 1, among these humorous tweets, the most frequent communicative function identified by EXP was “Aggressive” (AGGR), which accounted for the vast majority of cases (71 occurrences). The remaining functions were much less common: “Affiliative” (AFF) humor appeared in only 12 tweets, while “Defensive” (DEF) (1), “Self-deprecating “(SDP) (4), and “(Self-)Enhancing” (SEN) (2) were only marginally attested.

#### Inter-rater Reliability

Due to the design of this study, which aims to assess whether LLMs can be reliable annotators and research assistants, we relied on measures of inter-rater agreement, assessing how much LLMs agree (or not) with a human expert. We begin by examining their ability to distinguish between humorous and non-humorous tweets. From a
