necessary for humor interpretation. Short-term improvements may be achieved by systematically incorporating co-text, while broader extensions should consider multimodal humor, including images and GIFs. Further testing should prioritise LLaMA, which presents fewer issues related to reproducibility and scientific ethics, and aim to improve performance in the annotation of pragmatic phenomena through parameter adjustment based on alignment with a gold standard. In addition, experimentation with different prompting strategies, as well as alternative approaches involving model fine-tuning (e.g., Fuoli et al., 2025), may further enhance performance in the annotation of such phenomena.

**Supplementary Information** The online version contains supplementary material available at https://doi.org/10.1007/s41701-026-00235-7.

**Author Contributions** Antonio Bianco: Investigation, Resources, Data Curation, Writing - Original Draft; Antonio Bianco wrote: “Automatic Analysis of Humor” (together with Davide Garassino); “Humorous vs. Non-humorous Tweets”; “Humor Functions: A Taxonomy”; “Qualitative Results”. Nicola Brocca: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Investigation, Writing Original Draft, Review & Editing, Supervision: Nicola Brocca wrote: “Introduction”, “Challenges in Pragmatic Annotation”, “Technology-assisted Pragmatic Annotation”, “Discussion”, “Conclusion”. Davide Garassino: Conceptualization, Methodology, Formal analysis, Investigation, Data Curation, Writing Original Draft, Review & Editing, Supervision; Davide Garassino wrote: “Automatic Analysis of Humor” (together with Antonio Bianco), Corpus, Selected LLMs, Annotation Process, Prompt Creation, Qualitative Results.

**Funding** Open access funding provided by University of Innsbruck and Medical University of Innsbruck. Open access funding provided by University of Innsbruck.

**Data Availability** The following data are available at: https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/WPCR6 A. An Excel file containing annotations of 200 tweets by four annotators (two human and two LLMs). B. An Excel file containing annotations of 90 humorous tweets by the same four annotators. C. A file with the two prompts provided to the LLMs. D. The codebooks used by human annotators. E. The R script used for data processing and analysis.

## Declarations

**Competing interest** The authors declare no competing interests.

**Ethics Approval** The authors confirm that the research was conducted in accordance with relevant institutional and international guidelines, and that there are no ethical issues associated with this work.

**Open Access** This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
