terpretation of (12) by GPT-4o. In the following examples, we discuss cases in which human annotators disagree with LLMs about the functions of humor.

| Tweet | Human annotators | LLMs |
|---|---|---|
| (12) G. Crosetto: @utente1 😂😂😂*tana che?? Era l’unico partito di opposizione!* 😂😂<br>@user1 😂😂😂 How so?? It was the only opposition party! 😂😂 | aggressive | affiliative (GPT-4o)<br>aggressive (LLaMA-3.3) |
| (13) V. Sgarbi: *Gli italiani incazzati votano i moderati.*<br>Pissed-off Italians votes for the moderates | affiliative | aggressive |

In (12), Crosetto mocks another user, employing multiple face-with-tears emojis that reinforce the derisive tone. Example (12) is clearly aggressive, as recognized by the human annotators and LLaMA, but not by GPT-4o, which may have misinterpreted the emojis’ function, i.e., as an expression of affiliation. This example also shows the disagreement between the two LLMs. In (13), the Italian adjective *incazzati* (‘pissed-off’) is a dysphemism that may have influenced LLMs to interpret (13) as aggressive. However, the tweet is used with a playful intent: Sgarbi intends to create a paradox between being “pissed-off” citizens and voting for the moderates. This latter expression also activates a humorous pun (Hempelmann & Miller, 2017: 97): *moderati* (‘moderates’) indicates both calm, rational people and the political representatives of Sgarbi’s party *Noi Moderati* (‘We, the Moderates’). In (13), any form of aggression is merely simulated.

Considering (12)-(13), LLMs seem to focus on the explicit and lexical component of the text also including the use of emojis, not implementing the complex inferential reasoning that would have led to a correct interpretation of the message and the communicative purposes that the authors of the tweets aimed to achieve. When tweets require inferential reasoning, human annotators appear to provide more reliable evaluations (even accounting for occasional errors). This advantage may also stem from human annotators’ greater familiarity with the context of Italian politics and the dynamics of the 2022 elections.

## Discussion

Two tasks were carried out by two human annotators (one expert and one novice) and two LLMs (GPT-4o and LLaMA-3.3). Task 1 focused on recognizing humorous and non-humorous tweets, while Task 2 involved annotating humorous tweets according to five labels representing different humor functions.

In Task 1, the tested LLMs demonstrated high inter-rater agreement with the expert annotator, with GPT-4o slightly outperforming the novice annotator.

In Task 2, LLMs performance reached only moderate agreement with the baseline provided by the expert annotator. Inter-rater agreement on the functions of humor (RQ2) was lower than in Task 1, suggesting that LLMs find classifying humor types more challenging than simply detecting humor. Non-aligning annotations in this second task followed identifiable patterns, as the models tended to rely on superficial linguistic cues.
