General Theory of Verbal Humor, GTVH (Attardo & Raskin, 1991; Attardo, 2020). According to the GTVH, there are six knowledge resources, hierarchically organized, that are necessary to interpret and/or compare humorous texts, namely: Script Opposition (SO) → Logical Mechanism (LM) → Situation (SI) → Target (TA) → Narrative Strategy (NS) → Language (LA). The most important of the six knowledge resources is the Script Opposition. Specifically, a text can be considered humorous if and only if the criteria in (1) are simultaneously satisfied (Attardo, 2020):

(1)

a. The text is compatible (fully or in part) with two different scripts (Overlapping);  
b. The two scripts with which the text is compatible are opposite (Oppositeness).

Scripts are essentially ideas, thoughts, or meanings evoked by a text. Scripts can be activated lexically and inferentially, i.e.: by presuppositions, inferences and implicatures. All three can activate or evoke a script through implicit activation (Attardo, 2020: 125). Consider the example discussed by Attardo (2020: 124–125): “I drove to Dallas with my wife.” In this text, the word *drive* lexically activates the script of a “vehicle”, while *Dallas* activates at least the scripts of “city” and “Texas”. Inferentially, the text triggers the script of “married man” and de-activates the script of a “bachelor.”

Regarding (1a), Overlapping is to be understood as the coexistence of two senses or two interpretations within the same text (Attardo, 1994: 203). In relation to (1b), Raskin (1985: 108) refers to a local antonymy between scripts within a particular discourse. Thus, Overlapping and Oppositeness allow us to distinguish humor from other pragmatic phenomena: for example, non-humorous metaphors activate two overlapping scripts but these scripts are not in opposition to each other in the same text. Notably, the scripts in opposition may be related to different levels of abstraction. All SOs can be reduced to three highly abstract binary oppositions: actual/non-actual; normal/abnormal, and possible/impossible. Therefore, in each of the tweets classified as humorous, it is possible to find one of these three abstract oppositions. Moreover, each text instantiates these high-level SOs into text-specific local oppositions (i.e., concrete instantiation of oppositions in the text). Attardo et al. (2002) also introduced an intermediate level of abstraction useful to connect the local SO to the abstract opposition. The example (2) illustrates these concepts.

(2) G. Conte: *Occhio ragazzi, Salvini ha trovato il modo per risolvere i problemi dei giovani. Tutti a fare il militare!*

Hey guys, Salvini has found a way to solve the problems of young people. Everyone, join the army!

In (2), at the concrete-textual level, two scripts are opposed: complex, modern, specific problems of young people vs. simplistic solution (cf. military service). The abstract-level opposition is between Real vs. Unreal or also Good vs. Bad. In (3), the humorous interpretation is also supported by linguistic markers (Burger & van
