## Corpus

The original dataset is composed of 7,552 tweets (automatically extracted), published during the 2022 election campaign (from 25 August to 25 September 2022) by 38 Italian politicians. They were selected to ensure maximum balance among the represented parties and coalitions. Automatic extraction occurred, prior to Twitter’s transition to X, through Tweepy (Roesslein, 2025), an open-source Python Library, that provided a wrapper for the Twitter API.[^1] All tweets in the dataset were previously annotated by an expert annotator (EXP, an Italian PhD student specializing in the linguistics of humor and political discourse) to discriminate humorous tweets from non-humorous tweets. Humorous tweets were classified according to the criteria in Sect. 4.1. Humor markers were also considered, based on Attardo (2000) and Burger and van Mulken (2017). Following this annotation process, 200 tweets were selected for this study: 90 tweets classified as humorous and 110 as non-humorous by EXP. The corpus is available in the online Appendix.

### Selected LLMs

The LLMs examined in this study are GPT-4o and LLaMA-3.3 70b-Instruct (henceforth LLaMA-3.3). GPT-4o (OpenAI, 2025) was a natural choice, given its status as one of the most widely used and investigated commercial LLMs. Typically accessed via the ChatGPT interface, GPT-4o has demonstrated strong performance across a variety of linguistic and pragmatic oriented tasks, including speech act recognition and annotation (Yu et al., 2024; Su & Ye, 2025).

To enable a more robust triangulation of results involving LLMs and to “test other kinds of system descriptions that could match the profile information of human evaluators” (Goes et al., 2023), we also included a second model, LLaMA-3.3 (Grattafiori et al., 2024). Unlike GPT-4o, LLaMA-3.3 is an open-source model, making it particularly appealing for research contexts grounded in Open Science. In this study, LLaMA-3.3 was accessed via the Hugging Face web interface (https://huggingface.co). Regarding the differences between the two models, two main aspects should be considered: accuracy of results and adherence to scientific and ethical standards. In terms of accuracy, GPT-4o shows better results than LLaMA-3.3 in some tasks, such as the annotation of speech acts in corpus pragmatics (Brocca et al., 2026). Given scientific and ethical standards, a key issue is reproducibility (Brocca et al., 2026). Since annotation is a process that should yield consistent results over time, reproducibility is essential. While OpenAI adopts a comparatively less transparent policy regarding model updates and training data, LLaMA provides more open documentation. In particular, running a smaller LLM locally ensures reliance on a fixed model over time, thereby producing outputs that are easier to reproduce.

[^1]: The Twitter API (Application Programming Interface) is a toolset that allows researchers to automatically retrieve and analyze Twitter data.
