[Figure: Bar chart showing distribution of communicative functions of humour (EXP). Y-axis: Count. X-axis labels: aff, aggr, def, sdp, sen. The “aggr” bar is highest, followed by “aff”, then “sdp”, “sen”, and “def”.]

**Fig. 1** The distribution of the communicative functions of humor in the dataset according to EXP ($\chi^2(4) = 199.22$, p < .0001)

descriptive standpoint, this can be initially explored through the confusion matrices in Fig. 2, which show all instances of agreement and disagreement between annotators for each category. Generally, when interpreting the matrices, the darker the color of a tile, the higher the frequency of the corresponding combination.

As shown in Fig. 2, it is immediately apparent that all annotator pairs reached a considerable level of agreement. For example, in the upper-left matrix, when EXP labeled a tweet as humorous, NOV agreed in 83 cases and disagreed in 7. Conversely, when EXP labeled a tweet as non-humorous, NOV concurred in 89 cases, with 21 cases of disagreement.

The counts provided in Fig. 2 reflect only raw (or observed) agreement (Artstein, 2017), which can be misleading, as they do not account for accidental agreement (i.e., a potential agreement among annotators attributable solely to chance). To address this, inter-rater agreement is typically evaluated using indices such as *Cohen’s kappa* and *Gwet’s AC1*.

Both measures are conceptually similar. However, they differ in how expected agreement is calculated (Hoek & Scholman, 2017; Vach & Gerke, 2023). Cohen’s kappa estimates expected agreement from the marginal probabilities that each annotator uses a given category (Artstein, 2017; Artstein & Poesio, 2008; Hoek & Scholman, 2017). In contrast, Gwet’s AC1 adjusts the expected agreement to reduce
