(4) D. Serracchiani: *Meloni smentisce Salvini: le sanzioni funzionano. Questa è la coalizione unita!*

Meloni contradicts Salvini by saying that sanctions work. This is the united coalition!

Affiliative (AFF): Friendly and relaxed humor intended to build connection with voters or readers. Even when seemingly aggressive in tone, it fosters closeness and reciprocity (Martin et al., 2003). In (5), Sgarbi – a well-known Italian public personality and politician – reproduced on X a mockingly discourteous conversation he had with a voter:

(5) V. Sgarbi: *“Professore, ho tutti i suoi libri nella lista. Da leggere.” E leggili, stronzo! (con affetto, chiaramente) 😅*

Professor, I have all your books on my list. To be read.” And read them, asshole! (With love, obviously) 😅.

(Self-)Enhancing (SEN): humor that underscores the positive traits and abilities of the speaker, their party, or its leader. For example, the metaphor in (6) is used by Ronzulli to praise the president of her party (the Forza Italia Party).

(6) L. Ronzulli: *Il leone ha ruggito ancora!! #forzaitalia #forzaPresidente*

The lion roared again!! #forzaitalia #forzaPresidente.

Defensive (DEF): Humor used to counter attacks from political rivals by discrediting them comically. It serves as a protective strategy. This function was introduced, although absent in Martin et al. (2003)’s model, because it has been identified as a strategic function in several studies on linguistic implicit meanings in Italian politicians’ speeches (e.g., Cominetti et al., 2024). Consider the positive irony (Attardo, 2020: 388) in (7): a negative judgement (‘look how bad they are’) is used to imply a positive comment (cf. they are not bad). This strategy is used to ridicule the accusation made by those who criticized the bank lending system:

(7) L. Marattin: *Sono soldi che costoro - ma guarda un po’ che cattivi - prima o poi rivogliono indietro, con una remunerazione rapportata al rischio che corrono.*

It’s money that these people want back sooner or later - and look how bad they are -, with a remuneration proportional to the risk they run.

These definitions were integrated into the annotation codebook provided to human annotators to carry out the described tasks (see the online Appendix). Along with examples, they were also used in the prompts for LLMs (“Selected LLMs” section).
