ings must also be supported by distinct sets of words in the sentence.

Inspired by Kao et al. (2015), we propose a general principle for puns which we call *local-global surprisal principle*. Our key observation is that the strength for the interpretation of the pun and the alternative words flips as one reads the sentence. For example, in Figure 1, “died” is favored by the immediate (local) context, whereas “dyed” is favored by the global context (i.e. “...food coloring...”). Our surprisal principle posits that the pun word is much more surprising in the local context than in the global context, while the opposite is true for the alternative word.

We instantiate our local-global surprisal principle in two ways. First, we develop a quantitative metric for surprise based on the conditional probabilities of the pun word and the alternative word given local and global contexts under a neural language model. However, we find that this metric is not sufficient for generation. We then develop an unsupervised approach to generate puns based on a retrieve-and-edit framework (Guu et al., 2018; Hashimoto et al., 2018) given an unhumorous corpus (Figure 2). We call our system SURGEN (SURprisal-based pun GENeration).

We test our approach on 150 pun-alternative word pairs.[^1] First, we show a strong correlation between our surprisal metric and funniness ratings from crowdworkers. Second, human evaluation shows that our system generates puns successfully 31% of the time, compared to 9% of a neural generation baseline (Yu et al., 2018), and results in higher funniness scores.

## 2 Problem Statement

We assume access to a large corpus of raw (unhumorous) text. Given a pun word $w^p$ (e.g., “dyed”) and an alternative word $w^a$ (e.g., “died”) which are (near) homophones, we aim to generate a list of pun sentences. A pun sentence contains only the pun word $w^p$, but both $w^p$ and $w^a$ should be evoked by the sentence.

## 3 Approach

### 3.1 Surprise in Puns

What makes a good pun sentence? Our key observation is that as a reader processes a sentence, he or she expects to see the alternative word at the pun word position, and are tickled by the relation between the pun word and the rest of the sentence. Consider the following cloze test: *“Yesterday I accidentally swallowed some food coloring. The doctor says I’m OK, but I feel like I’ve _____ a little inside.”* Most people would expect the word in the blank to be “died” whereas the actual word is “dyed”. Locally, “died a little inside” is much more likely than “dyed a little inside”. However, globally when looking back at the whole sentence, “dyed” is evoked by “food coloring”.

Formally, $w^p$ is more surprising relative to $w^a$ in the local context, but much less so in the global context. We hypothesize that this contrast between local and global surprisal creates humor.

### 3.2 A Local-Global Surprisal Measure

Let us try to formalize the local-global surprisal principle quantitatively. To measure the amount of surprise due to seeing the pun word instead of the alternative word in a certain context $c$, we define surprisal $S$ as the log-likelihood ratio of the two events:

$$
S(c) \overset{\mathrm{def}}{=} -\log \frac{p(w^p \mid c)}{p(w^a \mid c)} = -\log \frac{p(w^p, c)}{p(w^a, c)}.
\tag{1}
$$

We define the local surprisal to only consider context of a span around the pun word, and the global surprisal to consider context of the whole sentence. Letting $x_1, \ldots, x_n$ be a sequence of tokens, and $x_p$ be the pun word $w^p$, we have

$$
S_{\mathrm{local}} \overset{\mathrm{def}}{=} S(x_{p-d:p-1}, x_{p+1:p+d}),
\tag{2}
$$

$$
S_{\mathrm{global}} \overset{\mathrm{def}}{=} S(x_{1:p-1}, x_{p+1:n}),
\tag{3}
$$

where $d$ is the local window size.

For puns, both the local and global surprisal should be positive because they are unusual sentences by nature. However, the global surprisal should be lower than the local surprisal due to topic words hinting at the pun word. We use the following unified metric, *local-global surprisal*, to quantify whether a sentence is a pun:

$$
S_{\mathrm{ratio}} \overset{\mathrm{def}}{=}
\begin{cases}
-1 & S_{\mathrm{local}} < 0 \text{ or } S_{\mathrm{global}} < 0, \\
S_{\mathrm{local}} / S_{\mathrm{global}} & \text{otherwise.}
\end{cases}
\tag{4}
$$

We hypothesize that larger $S_{\mathrm{ratio}}$ is indicative of a good pun. Note that this hypothesis is invalid when either $S_{\mathrm{local}}$ or $S_{\mathrm{global}}$ is negative, in which case we consider the sentences equally unfunny by setting $S_{\mathrm{ratio}}$ to $-1$.

[^1]: Our code and data are available at https://github.com/hhexiy/pungen.
