“ship”. We define type-consistency (for nouns) based on WordNet path similarity.[^2] Given two words, we get their synsets from WordNet constrained by their POS tags.[^3] If the path similarity between any pair of senses from the two respective synsets is larger than a threshold, we consider the two words type-consistent. In summary, the first noun or pronoun in the seed sentence is replaced by a type-consistent topic word. We call this baseline RETRIEVE+SWAP+TOPIC.

**Improve grammaticality.** Directly replacing a word with the topic word may result in ungrammatical sentences, e.g., replacing “i” with “negotiator” and getting “negotiator am just a woman trying to peace her life back together.” Therefore, we use a sequence-to-sequence model to smooth the edited sentence (RETRIEVE+SWAP+TOPIC+SMOOTHER).

We smooth the sentence by deleting words around the topic word and train a model to fill in the blank. The smoother is trained in a similar fashion to denoising autoencoders: we delete immediate neighbors of a word in a sentence, and ask the model to reconstruct the sentence by predicting missing neighbors. A training example is shown below:

Original: `the man slowly walked towards`  
     `the woods .`

Input:  `<i> man </i> walked towards the`  
     `woods .`

Output: `the man slowly`

During training, the word to delete is selected in the same way as selecting the word to replace in a seed sentence, i.e. nouns or pronouns at the beginning of a sentence. At test time, the smoother is expected to fill in words to connect the topic word with the seed sentence in a grammatical way, e.g., “<u>the negotiator is just a woman trying to peace her life back together</u>” (the part rewritten by the smoother is underlined).

## 4 Experiments

We first evaluate how well our surprisal principle predicts the funniness of sentences perceived by humans (Section 4.2), and then compare our pun generation system and its variations with a simple retrieval baseline and a neural generation model (Yu et al., 2018) (Section 4.3). We show that the local-global surprisal scores strongly correlate with human ratings of funniness, and all of our systems outperform the baselines based on human evaluation. In particular, RETRIEVE+SWAP+TOPIC (henceforth SURGEN) achieves the highest success rate and average funniness score among all systems.

### 4.1 Datasets

We use the pun dataset from 2017 SemEval task7 (Doogan et al., 2017). The dataset contains 1099 human-written puns annotated with pun words and alternative words, from which we take 219 for development. We use BookCorpus (Zhu et al., 2015) as the generic corpus for retrieval and training various components of our system.

### 4.2 Analysis of the Surprisal Principle

We evaluate the surprisal principle by analyzing how well the local-global surprisal score (Equation (4)) predicts funniness rated by humans. We first give a brief overview of previous computational accounts of humor, and then analyze the correlation between each metric and human ratings.

**Prior funniness metrics.** Kao et al. (2015) proposed two information-theoretic metrics: *ambiguity* of meanings and *distinctiveness* of supporting words. Ambiguity says that the sentence should support both the pun meaning and the alternative meaning. Distinctiveness further requires that the two meanings be supported by distinct sets of words.

In contrast, our metric based on the surprisal principle imposes additional requirements. First, surprisal says that while both meanings are acceptable (indicating ambiguity), the pun meaning is unexpected based on the local context. Second, the local-global surprisal contrast requires the pun word to be well supported in the global context.

Given the anomalous nature of puns, we also consider a metric for *unusualness* based on normalized log-probabilities under a language model (Pauls and Klein, 2012):

$$
\text{Unusualness} \stackrel{\mathrm{def}}{=} -\frac{1}{n}\log\left(\frac{p(x_1,\ldots,x_n)}{\prod_{i=1}^{n} p(x_i)}\right).
\tag{6}
$$

**Implementation details.** Both ambiguity and distinctiveness are based on a generative model

[^2]: Path similarity is a score between 0 and 1 that is inversely proportional to the shortest distance between two word senses in WordNet.

[^3]: Pronouns are mapped to the synset `person.n.01`.
