[Figure: flowchart showing pun generation. Labels include $w^p = hare$, $w^a = hair$; “Retrieve using hair”; “the man stopped to get a <u>hair</u> cut.”; “Swap hair → hare”; “the man stopped to get a <u>hare</u> cut.”; “Insert topic man → greyhound”; “the <span style="color: green">greyhound</span> stopped to get a <u>hare</u> cut.”]

Figure 2: Overview of our pun generation approach. Given a pair of pun/alternative word, we first retrieve sentences containing $w^a$ from a generic corpus. Next, $w^a$ is replaced by $w^p$ to increase local surprisal. Lastly, we insert a topic word at the beginning of the sentence to create global associations supporting $w^p$ and decrease global surprisal.

### 3.3 Generating Puns

The surprisal metric above can be used to assess whether a sentence is a pun, but to generate puns, we need a procedure that can ensure grammaticality. Recall that the surprisal principle requires (1) a strong association between the alternative word and the local context; (2) a strong association between the pun word and the distant context; and (3) both words should be interpretable given local and global context to maintain ambiguity.

Our strategy is to model puns as deviations from normality. Specifically, we mine *seed sentences* (sentences with the potential to be transformed into puns) from a large, generic corpus, and edit them to satisfy the three requirements above.

Figure 2 gives an overview of our approach. Suppose we are generating a pun given $w^p =$ “hare” and $w^a =$ “hair”. To reinforce $w^a =$ “hair” in the local context despite the appearance of “hare”, we retrieve sentences containing “hair” and replace occurrences of it with “hare”. Here, the local context strongly favors the alternative word (“hair cut”) relative to the pun word (“hare cut”). Next, to make the pun word “hare” more plausible, we insert a “hare”-related topic word (“greyhound”) near the beginning of the sentence. In summary, we create local surprisal by putting $w^p$ in common contexts for $w^a$, and connect $w^p$ to a distant topic word by substitution. We describe each step in detail below.

**Local surprisal.** The first step is to retrieve sentences containing $w^a$. A typical pattern of pun sentences is that the pun word only occurs once towards the end of the sentence, which separates local context from pun-related topics at the beginning. Therefore, we retrieve sentences containing exactly one $w^a$ and rank them by the position of $w^a$ in the sentence (later is better). Next, we replace $w^a$ in the retrieved sentence with $w^p$. The pun word usually fits in the context as it often has the same part-of-speech tag as the alternative word. Thus the swap creates local surprisal by putting the pun word in an unusual but acceptable context. We call this step RETRIEVE+SWAP, and use it as a baseline to generate puns.

**Global surprisal.** While the pun word is locally unexpected, we need to foreshadow it. This global association must not be too strong that it eliminates the ambiguity. Therefore, we include a single *topic word* related to the pun word by replacing one word at the beginning of the seed sentence. We see this simple structure in many human-written puns as well. For example, *“Old <u>butchers</u> never die, they only <u>meat</u> their fate.”*, where pun words and their corresponding topic words are underlined.

We define relatedness between two words $w_i$ and $w_j$ based on a “distant” skip-gram model $p_\theta(w_j \mid w_i)$, where we train $p_\theta$ to maximize $p_\theta(w_j \mid w_i)$ for all $w_i, w_j$ in the same sentence between $d_1$ to $d_2$ words apart. Formally:

$$
\sum_{j=i-d_1}^{i-d_2} \log p_\theta(w_j \mid w_i) + \sum_{j=i+d_1}^{i+d_2} \log p_\theta(w_j \mid w_i).
\tag{5}
$$

We take the top-$k$ predictions from $p_\theta(w \mid w^p)$, where $w^p$ is the pun word, as candidate topic words $w$ to be further filtered next.

**Type consistent constraint.** The replacement must maintain acceptability of the sentence. For example, changing *“person”* to *“ship”* in *“Each person must pay their fare share”* does not make sense even though *“ship”* and *“fare”* are related. Therefore, we restrict the deleted word in the seed sentence to nouns and pronouns, as verbs have more constraints on their arguments and replacing them is likely to result in unacceptable sentences.

In addition, we select candidate topic words that are type-consistent with the deleted word, e.g., replacing *“person”* with *“passenger”* as opposed to
