| Aspect | SURGEN v.s. NJD win % | lose % | SURGEN v.s. Human win % | lose % |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Success | 48.0 | 5.3 | 6.0 | 78.7 |
| Funniness | 56.7 | 25.3 | 10.7 | 85.3 |
| Grammar | 60.7 | 30.0 | 8.0 | 82.0 |

Table 4: Pairwise comparison between SURGEN and NEURALJOINTDECODER (NJD), and between SURGEN and human written puns. Win % (lose %) is the percentage among the human-rated 150 sentences where SURGEN achieves a higher (lower) average score compared to the other method. The rest are ties.

[Figure: Pie chart titled “A breakdown of error types” with slices labeled 14%, 38%, 32%, 8%, 6%, and 28%. Legend labels: topic not fit; pun word not fit; topic-pun word not related; grammar error; fail to generate; bad seed sentence.]

Figure 3: Error case breakdown shows that the main issues lie in finding seed sentences that accommodates both the pun word and the topic word (topic not fit + pun word not fit + bad seed sentence).

model for topic word prediction, a type consistency checker, and a neural smoother. Given an alternative word, the retriever returned 500 candidates, among which we took the top 100 as seed sentences (Section 3.3 local surprisal). For topic words, we took the top 100 words predicted by the skip-gram model and filtered them to ensure type consistency with the deleted word (Section 3.3 global surprisal). The WordNet path similarity threshold for type consistency was set to 0.3.

The skip-gram model was trained on BookCorpus with $d_1 = 5$ and $d_2 = 10$ in Equation (5). We set the word embedding size to 300 and trained for 15 epochs using Adam (Kingma and Ba, 2014) with a learning rate of 0.0001. For the neural smoother, we trained a single-layer LSTM (512 hidden units) sequence-to-sequence model with attention on BookCorpus. The model was trained for 50 epochs using AdaGrad (Duchi et al., 2010) with a learning rate of 0.01 and a dropout rate of 0.1.

**Human evaluation.** We hired workers on AMT to rate outputs from all 5 systems together with expert-written puns from the SemEval pun dataset. Each worker was shown a group of sentences generated by all systems (randomly shuffled) given the same pun word and alternative word pair. Workers were asked to rate each sentence on three aspects: (1) success (“*Is the sentence a pun?*”),[^8] (2) funniness (“*How funny is the sentence?*”), and (3) grammaticality (“*How grammatical is the sentence?*”). Success was rated as yes/no, and funniness and grammaticality were rated on a scale from 1 (not at all) to 5 (very). We also included a N/A choice (does not make sense) for funniness to exclude cases where the sentence are not understandable. Workers were explicitly instructed to try their best to give different scores for sentences in the same group.

We evaluated 150 pun/alternative word pairs. Each generated sentence was rated by 5 workers and their scores were averaged. N/A ratings were excluded unless all ratings of a sentence were N/A, in which case we set its score to 0. We attracted 65, 93, 66 workers for the success, funniness, and grammaticality surveys respectively, and removed 3, 4, 4 workers because their maximum Spearman correlation with other workers was lower than 0.2. We measure inter-annotator agreement using average Spearman correlation among all workers, and the average inter-annotator Spearman correlation for success, funniness, and grammaticality are 0.57, 0.36, and 0.32, respectively.

Table 3 shows the overall results. All 3 of our systems outperform the baselines in terms of success rate and funniness. More edits (i.e. swapping, inserting topic words) made the sentence less grammatical, but also much more like puns (higher success rate). Interestingly, introducing the neural smoother did not improve grammaticality and hurt success rate slightly. Manual inspection shows that ungrammaticality is often caused by improper topic word, thus fixing its neighboring words does not truly solve the problem. For example, filling “*drum*” (related to “*lute*”) in “*if that was _____ it was likely that another body would turn up soon, because someone probably wouldn’t want to share the lute.*”. In addition, when the neural model is given a rare topic word, it tends to rewrite it to a common phrase instead, again showing that supervised learning is against the spirit of generating novel content. For example, inserting “*gentlewoman*” to “*_____ not allow me to ...*” produces “*these people did not allow me to ...*”. Overall, our

[^8]: They were shown the definition from Miller et al. (2017).
