<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Method</th>
<th>Example</th>
<th>Rating</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td colspan="3"><strong>1. Pun/alternative word pair: butter – better</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NJD</td>
<td>He is going to come up with the butter a ‘very good’ approach to the world’s economic crisis, the world’s biggest economic climate.</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SURGEN</td>
<td>Well, gourmet did it, he thought, it’d butter be right.</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Human</td>
<td>Why did the dairy churn? The less said, the butter...</td>
<td>1.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="3"><strong>2. Pun/alternative word pair: peace – piece</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NJD</td>
<td>Further, he said, at the end of the peace, it’s not clear that it will be a good example.</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SURGEN</td>
<td>That’s because negotiator got my car back to me in one peace.</td>
<td>1.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Human</td>
<td>Life is a puzzle; look here for the missing peace.</td>
<td>3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="3"><strong>3. Pun/alternative word pair: flour – flower</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NJD</td>
<td>Go, and if you are going on the flour.</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SURGEN</td>
<td>Butter want to know who these two girls are, the new members of the holy flour.</td>
<td>1.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Human</td>
<td>Betty crocker was a flour child.</td>
<td>4.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="3"><strong>4. Pun/alternative word pair: wait – weight</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NJD</td>
<td>Gordon Brown, Georgia’s prime minister, said he did not have to wait, but he was not sure whether he had been killed.</td>
<td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SURGEN</td>
<td>Even from the outside, I could tell that he’d already lost some wait.</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Human</td>
<td>Patience is a virtue heavy in wait.</td>
<td>3</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 5: Examples of generated puns with average human ratings of funniness (1-5). 0 means that all ratings are N/A (does not make sense).

SURGEN performs the best and tripled the success rate of NEURALJOINTDECODER with improved funniness and grammaticality scores. Nevertheless, there is still a significant gap between generated puns and expert-written puns across all aspects, indicating that pun generation remains an open challenge.

Table 4 shows the pairwise comparison results among our best model SURGEN, NEURALJOINTDECODER, and expert-written puns. Given the outputs of two systems, we decided win/lose/tie by comparing the average scores of both outputs. We see that SURGEN dominates NEURALJOINTDECODER with $>$ 50% winning rate on funniness and grammaticality. On success rate, the two methods have many ties since they both have relatively low success rate. Our generated puns were rated funnier than expert-written puns around 10% of the time.

### 4.4 Error Analysis

In Table 5, we show example outputs of our SURGEN, the NEURALJOINTDECODER baseline, and expert-written puns. SURGEN sometimes generates creative puns that are rated even funnier than human-written puns (example 1). In contrast, NEURALJOINTDECODER at best generates ambiguous sentences (example 2 and 3) and sometimes the sentences are ungrammatical (example 1) or hard to understand (example 4). The examples also show the current limitation of SURGEN. In example 3, it failed to realize that “butter” is not animate thus cannot “want” since our type consistency checker is very simple.

To gain further insights on the limitation of our system, we randomly sampled 50 unsuccessful generations (labeled by workers) to analyze the issues. We characterized the issues into 6 non-exclusive categories: (1) weak association between the local context and $w^a$ (e.g., “...in the form of a batty (bat)”); (2) $w^p$ does not fit in the local context, often due to different POS tags of $w^a$ and $w^p$ (e.g., “vibrate with a taxed (text)”); (3) the topic word is not related to $w^p$ (e.g., “pagan” vs “fabrication”); (4) the topic word does not fit in its immediate context, often due to inconsistent types (e.g., “slider won’t go...”), (5) grammatical errors; and (6) fail to obtain seed sentences or topic words. A breakdown of these errors is shown in Figure 3. The main issues lie in finding seed sentences that accommodate both the pun word and the topic word. There is also room for improvement in predicting pun-related topic words.

## 5 Discussion and Related Work

### 5.1 Humor Theory

Humor involves complex cognitive activities and many theories attempt to explain what might be considered humorous. Among the leading theories, the incongruity theory (Tony, 2004) is most related to our surprisal principle. The incongruity
