# Pun Generation with Surprise

**He He<sup>1*</sup> and Nanyun Peng<sup>2*</sup> and Percy Liang<sup>1</sup>**  
<sup>1</sup>Computer Science Department, Stanford University  
<sup>2</sup>Information Sciences Institute, University of Southern California  
`{hehe,pliang}@cs.stanford.edu, npeng@isi.edu`

## Abstract

We tackle the problem of generating a pun sentence given a pair of homophones (e.g., “died” and “dyed”). Supervised text generation is inappropriate due to the lack of a large corpus of puns, and even if such a corpus existed, mimicry is at odds with generating novel content. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised approach to pun generation using a corpus of unhumorous text and what we call the *local-global surprisal principle*: we posit that in a pun sentence, there is a strong association between the pun word (e.g., “dyed”) and the distant context, as well as a strong association between the alternative word (e.g., “died”) and the immediate context. This contrast creates surprise and thus humor. We instantiate this principle for pun generation in two ways: (i) as a measure based on the ratio of probabilities under a language model, and (ii) a retrieve-and-edit approach based on words suggested by a skip-gram model. Human evaluation shows that our retrieve-and-edit approach generates puns successfully 31% of the time, tripling the success rate of a neural generation baseline.

[Figure: Diagram illustrating a homophonic pun. Labels include “Global context” around the sentence “Yesterday I accidentally swallowed some food coloring. The doctor says I’m OK, but I feel like”, “Local context” around “I’ve dyed a little inside.”, and labels “Pun word: dyed.” and “Alternative word: died.”]

Figure 1: An illustration of a homophonic pun. The *pun word* appears in the sentence, while the *alternative word*, which has the same pronunciation but different meaning, is implicated. The *local context* refers to the immediate words around the pun word, whereas the *global context* refers to the whole sentence.

## 1 Introduction

Generating *creative content* is a key requirement in many natural language generation tasks such as poetry generation (Manurung et al., 2000; Ghazvininejad et al., 2016), story generation (Meehan, 1977; Peng et al., 2018; Fan et al., 2018; Yao et al., 2019), and social chatbots (Weizenbaum, 1966; Hao et al., 2018). In this paper, we explore creative generation with a focus on puns. We follow the definition of puns in Aarons (2017); Miller et al. (2017): “A pun is a form of wordplay in which one sign (e.g., a word or a phrase) suggests two or more meanings by exploiting polysemy, homonymy, or phonological similarity to another sign, for an intended humorous or rhetorical effect.” We focus on a typical class of puns where the ambiguity comes from two (near) homophones. Consider the example in Figure 1: “Yesterday I accidentally swallowed some food coloring. The doctor says I’m OK, but I feel like I’ve dyed (died) a little inside.”. The pun word shown in the sentence (“dyed”) indicates one interpretation: the person is colored inside by food coloring. On the other hand, an alternative word (“died”) is implied by the context for another interpretation: the person is sad due to the accident.

Current approaches to text generation require lots of training data, but there is no large corpus of puns. Even such a corpus existed, learning the distribution of existing data and sampling from it is unlikely to lead to truly novel, creative sentences. Creative composition requires deviating from the norm, whereas standard generation approaches seek to mimic the norm.

Recently, Yu et al. (2018) proposed an unsupervised approach that generates puns from a neural language model by jointly decoding conditioned on both the pun and the alternative words, thus injecting ambiguity to the output sentence. However, Kao et al. (2015) showed that ambiguity alone is insufficient to bring humor; the two mean-

<sup>*</sup>Equal contribution.

*Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2019*, pages 1734–1744  
Minneapolis, Minnesota, June 2 - June 7, 2019. ©2019 Association for Computational Linguistics
