**Automatic metrics of funniness.** We analyze the following metrics: local-global surprisal ($S_{\mathrm{ratio}}$), ambiguity, distinctiveness, and unusualness, with respect to their correlation with human ratings of funniness. For each metric, we standardized the scores and outliers beyond two standard deviations are set to $+2$ or $-2$ accordingly.[^5] We then compute the metrics’ Spearman correlation with human ratings. On KAO, we directly took the ambiguity scores and distinctiveness scores from the original implementation which requires human-annotated word relatedness.[^6] On SEMEVAL, we used our reimplementation of Kao et al. (2015)’s algorithm but with the skip-gram model.

The results are shown in Table 2. For puns and non-puns, all metrics correlate strongly with human scores, indicating all of them are useful for pun detection. For puns and swap-puns, only local-global surprisal ($S_{\mathrm{ratio}}$) has strong correlation, which shows that surprisal is important for characterizing puns. Ambiguity and distinctiveness do not differentiate pun word from the alternative word, and unusualness only considers probability of the sentence with the pun word, thus they do not correlate as significantly as $S_{\mathrm{ratio}}$.

Within puns, only distinctiveness has significant correlation, whereas the other metrics are not fine-grained enough to differentiate good puns from mediocre ones. Overall, no single metric is robust enough to score funniness across all types of sentences, which makes it hard to generate puns by optimizing automatic metrics of funniness directly.

There is slight inconsistency between results on SEMEVAL and KAO. Specifically, for puns and non-puns, the distinctiveness metric shows a significant correlation with human ratings on KAO but not on SEMEVAL. We hypothesize that it is mainly due to differences in the two corpora and noise from the skip-gram approximation. For example, our dataset contains longer sentences with an average length of 20 words versus 11 words for KAO. Further, Kao et al. (2015) used human annotation of word relatedness while we used the skip-gram model to estimate $p(x_i \mid z)$.

| Method | Success | Funniness | Grammar |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| NJD | 9.2% | 1.4 | 2.6 |
| R | 4.6% | 1.3 | **3.9** |
| R+S | 27.0% | 1.6 | 3.5 |
| R+S+T+M | 28.8% | **1.7** | 2.9 |
| SURGEN | **31.4%** | **1.7** | 3.0 |
| Human | 78.9% | 3.0 | 3.8 |

Table 3: Human evaluation results of all systems. We show average scores of funniness and grammaticality on a 1-5 scale and success rate computed from yes/no responses. We compare with two baselines: NEURALJOINTDECODER (NJD) and RETRIEVE (R). R+S, SURGEN, and R+S+T+M are three variations of our method: RETRIEVE+SWAP, RETRIEVE+SWAP+TOPIC, and RETRIEVE+SWAP+TOPIC+SMOOTHER, respectively. Overall, SURGEN performs the best across the board.

### 4.3 Pun Generation Results

**Systems.** We compare with a recent neural pun generator (Yu et al., 2018). They proposed an unsupervised approach based on generic language models to generate homographic puns.[^7] Their approach takes as input two senses of a target word (e.g., *bat.n01*, *bat.n02* from WordNet synsets), and decodes from both senses jointly by taking a product of the probabilities conditioned on the two senses respectively (e.g., *bat.n01* and *bat.n02*), so that both senses are reflected in the output. To ensure that the target word appears in the middle of a sentence, they decode backward from the target word towards the beginning and then decode forward to complete the sentence. We adapted their method to generate homophonic puns by considering $w^p$ and $w^a$ as two input senses and decoding from the pun word. We retrained their forward / backward language models on the same BookCorpus used for our system. For comparison, we chose their best model (NEURALJOINTDECODER), which mainly captures ambiguity in puns.

In addition, we include a retrieval baseline (RETRIEVE) which simply retrieves sentences containing the pun word.

For our systems, we include the entire progression of methods described in Section 3 (RETRIEVE+SWAP, RETRIEVE+SWAP+TOPIC, and RETRIEVE+SWAP+TOPIC+SMOOTHER).

**Implementation details.** The key components of our systems include a retriever, a skip-gram

[^5]: Since both $S_{\mathrm{ratio}}$ and distinctiveness are unbounded, bounding the values gives more reliable correlation results.

[^6]: https://github.com/amoudgl/pun-model

[^7]: Sentences where the pun word and alternative word have the same written form (e.g., *bat*) but different senses.
