theory posits that humor is perceived at the moment of resolving the incongruity between two concepts, often involving unexpected shifts in perspectives. Ginzburg et al. (2015) applied the incongruity theory to explain laughter in dialogues. Prior work (Kao et al., 2015) on formalizing incongruity theory for puns focuses on ambiguity between two concepts and the heterogeneity nature of the ambiguity. Our surprisal principle further formalizes unexpectedness (local surprisal) and incongruity resolution (global association).

The surprisal principle is also related to studies in psycholinguistics on the relation between surprisal and human comprehension (Levy, 2013; Levy and Gibson, 2013). Our study suggests it could be a fruitful direction to formally study the relationship between human perception of surprisal and humor.

## 5.2 Humor generation

Early approaches to joke generation (Binsted, 1996; Ritchie, 2005) largely rely on templates for specific types of puns. For example, JAPE (Binsted, 1996) generates noun phrase puns as question-answer pairs, e.g., *“What do you call a [murderer] with [fiber]? A [cereal] [killer].”* Petrovic and Matthews (2013) fill in a joke template based on word similarity and uncommonness. Similar to our editing approach, Valitutti et al. (2013) substitutes a word with a taboo word based on form similarity and local coherence to generate adult jokes. Recently, Yu et al. (2018) generates puns from a generic neural language model by simultaneously conditioning on two meanings. Most of these approaches leverage some assumptions of joke structures, e.g., incongruity, relations between words, and word types. Our approach also relies on specific pun structures; we have proposed and operationalized a local-global surprisal principle for pun generation.

## 5.3 Creative text generation

Our work is also built upon generic text generation techniques, in particular recent neural generation models. Hashimoto et al. (2018) developed a retrieve-and-edit approach to improve both grammaticality and diversity of the generated text. Shen et al. (2017); Fu et al. (2018) explored adversarial training to manipulate the style of a sentence. Our neural smoother is also closely related to Li et al. (2018)’s delete-retrieve-edit approach to text style transfer.

Creative generation is more challenging as it requires both formality (e.g., grammaticality, rhythm, and rhyme) and novelty. Therefore, many works (including us) impose strong constraints on the generative process, such as Petrovic and Matthews (2013); Valitutti et al. (2013) for joke generation, Ghazvininejad et al. (2016) for poetry generation, and Yao et al. (2019) for storytelling.

# 6 Conclusion

In this paper, we tackled pun generation by developing and exploring a local-global surprisal principle. We show that a simple instantiation based on only a language model trained on non-humorous text is effective at detecting puns (though is not fine-grained enough to detect the degree of funniness within puns). To generate puns, we operationalize the surprisal principle with a retrieve-and-edit framework to create contrast in the amount of surprise in local and global contexts. While we improve beyond current techniques, we are still far from human-generated puns.

While we believe the local-global surprisal principle is a useful conceptual tool, the principle itself is not quite yet formalized in a robust enough way that can be be used both as a principle for evaluating sentences and can be directly optimized to generate puns. A big challenge in humor, and more generally, creative text generation, is to capture the difference between creativity (novel but well-formed material) and nonsense (ill-formed material). Language models conflate the two, so developing methods that are nuanced enough to recognize this difference is key to future progress.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the DARPA CwC program under ISI prime contract no. W911NF-15-1-0543 and ARO prime contract no. W911NF-15-1-0462. We thank Abhinav Moudgil and Justine Kao for sharing their data and results. We also thank members of the Stanford NLP group and USC Plus Lab for insightful discussions.

## Reproducibility

All code, data, and experiments for this paper are available on the CodaLab platform: https://worksheets.codalab.org/worksheets/0x5a7d0fe35b144ad68998d74891a31ed6.
