<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Dataset</th>
<th>Pun</th>
<th>pun word, alternative word</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2">homophonic</td>
<td>ChinesePun</td>
<td>篮球队教练在开会时抱怨道：“我们球队的配置太差了，现在需要一个<span style="color:red">投篮</span>的。”过了一会，助理教练领着机器猫走了进来：“教练，你看他的<span style="color:red">头蓝</span>吗？”<br>The coach of the basketball team was in a meeting and complained, "Our team is so poorly set up, we need a shooter now." A little while later, the assistant coach walks in with Robot Cat: "Coach, do you see his head in blue?"</td>
<td><span style="color:red">头蓝, 投篮</span><br>the head is blue, shoot a basketball</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SemEval</td>
<td>I lift weights only on Saturday and Sunday because Monday to Friday are <span style="color:red">weak</span> days.</td>
<td><span style="color:red">weak, week</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2">homographic</td>
<td>ChinesePun</td>
<td>路上看到消防车开过去,大人说:他们去救火. 孩子说:救火?应该是灭火,火是坏的,还要<span style="color:red">救</span>它呀!<br>The adults said as a fire truck drove by on the road: ’They’re going to put out a fire.’ The child replied: ’Put out a fire? Shouldn’t it be extinguishing the fire? Fire is bad; why would we save it?’</td>
<td><span style="color:red">救, 救</span><br>put out the fire, save sb’s life</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SemEval</td>
<td>Did you hear about the guy whose whole left side was cut off? He’s <span style="color:red">all right</span> now.</td>
<td><span style="color:red">all right, all right</span></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 1: Examples of homophonic and homographic puns in the ChinesePun and SemEval 2017 Task 7 dataset. Each annotation includes a pair consisting of the pun word and its alternative word. To facilitate better understanding for the readers, we have translated the Chinese examples in the table into English.

of these kinds of multi-stage preference learning, we introduce an improved humor preference aligning algorithm in stage 2. Different from standard DPO which learns from pairs of positive and negative samples, we make each training sample a triplet by adding an extra generation output from the model of stage 1 by the same input prompt. We propose a new loss function to adapt to this multi-objective alignment task and to alleviate the effects of catastrophic forgetting.

Additionally, previous researches have focused on the English pun dataset from SemEval 2017 task 7 (SemEval) (Miller et al., 2017) for evaluation. The dataset contains 1298 homographic puns and 1098 homophonic puns annotated with pun words and alternative words. To verify the broad applicability of our method in different languages, we manually annotated the first Chinese dataset in the field, which is called ChinesePun. Table 1 shows examples in our dataset and SemEval 2017 Task 7 dataset. This dataset comprises 1,049 homophonic puns and 1,057 homographic puns, where each pun is annotated with its corresponding pun words and alternative words. The experimental results on both datasets indicate that our proposed method effectively enhances the ability of LLMs to generate puns and significantly outperforms existing methods. Our contributions are summarized as follows:

• We introduce a multi-stage curriculum learning framework with a novel triplet preference learning method to enhance LLMs’ ability to generate humorous puns.

• We release the very first dataset for the Chinese pun generation task, aiming to stimulate advancements in the field of Chinese humor understanding and generation[^1].

• We conduct extensive experiments on both the English and Chinese datasets to demonstrate the superiority of our proposed method.

## 2 Related Work

### 2.1 Pun Generation

Previous researches have focused on the SemEval 2017 Task 7 dataset (Miller et al., 2017), which contains 1,298 homographic puns and 1,098 homophonic puns, annotated with pun words and alternative words. Prior works on pun generation primarily targeted phonological or syntactic patterns over semantic ones (Miller and Gurevych, 2015; Hong and Ong, 2009; Petrović and Matthews, 2013; Valitutti et al., 2013), sacrificing flexibility. He et al. (2019) used the local-global surprisal principle to create homophonic puns, whereas Yu et al. (2020) utilized constrained lexical rewriting for the same purpose. Hashimoto et al. (2018) employed a retrieve-edit approach for homographic puns, and Yu et al. (2018); Luo et al. (2019) proposed advanced neural models like constrained language models and GANs. Mittal et al. (2022) generated homographic puns from polysemes and sought to incorporate their multiple senses. Tian et al. (2022) proposed a unified framework for both homographic and homophonic puns, leveraging humor principles. The keyword-conditioned pun generation setup can also facilitate more engaging pun generation scenarios such as context-situated pun generation (Sun et al., 2022b). However, all the aforementioned methods are designed specifically for small-scale models. To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first to enhance the pun generation capability of LLMs.

[^1]: Code, data, and resources are publicly available for research purposes: https://github.com/cubenlp/PGCL.
