<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th rowspan="2">Dataset</th>
<th colspan="2">SemEval</th>
<th colspan="2">ChinesePun</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>phonic</th>
<th>graphic</th>
<th>phonic</th>
<th>graphic</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Train Examples</td>
<td>879</td>
<td>1039</td>
<td>839</td>
<td>845</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Test Examples</td>
<td>219</td>
<td>259</td>
<td>210</td>
<td>212</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Total Examples</td>
<td>1098</td>
<td>1298</td>
<td>1049</td>
<td>1057</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 3: Data statistics. “phonic” and “graphic” denote homophonic and homographic puns.

dataset contains 1,049 homophonic puns, 1,057 homographic puns, and 187,315 words in total. Upon analyzing the count of pun words in our dataset, we discovered that the majority of puns include only one *pun word pair*. Consequently, our study narrows its focus exclusively to this scenario.

## 6 Experiments

### 6.1 Dataset

To prove the effectiveness of our method, we conduct experiments on ChinesePun and SemEval 2017 Task 7 dataset. Table 3 shows the data statistics of both datasets. For the ChinesePun dataset, we partition it into 1684 samples for training and 422 for testing. Regarding the SemEval 2017 Task 7 dataset, we allocate 1918 samples for the training set and 478 for the testing set. Both training and testing sets maintain an equal distribution of homophonic and homographic data.

### 6.2 Metrics

**Automatic Evaluation** To measure the model’s ability to incorporate *pun word pairs* in the final generation, we utilize the structure success rate (**Structure Succ.**) as our primary automatic evaluation metric, following Sun et al. (2022a,b). To evaluate diversity, we follow Luo et al. (2019); Yu et al. (2018); Mittal et al. (2022) to calculate distinct unigrams (**Dist-1**) and bigrams (**Dist-2**) in terms of sentence level and corpus level. Average sentence length (**Avg-Length**) is also reported.

**Human Evaluation** 50 *pun word pairs* are sampled randomly from the test dataset for human evaluation. To evaluate humor capabilities, we conduct a **Human A/B-test** to compare our models with ChatGPT. We pair the sentences generated by models and ask annotators to choose the better sentence based on the humor. If the difference is not significant, a tie is allowed. To evaluate the success rate of pun generation (**Pun Succ.**), following Mittal et al. (2022), we invite evaluators to classify each sentence into one of two categories: "pun" or "non-pun". We use the pairwise kappa coefficient to measure the inter-annotator agreement (IAA). The average inter-annotator agreement of all evaluators for humor capability and pun success are 0.47 and 0.58, meaning that annotators moderately agree with each other. Details of the human evaluation are provided in Appendix D.

### 6.3 Baselines

**AmbiPun** AmbiPun (Sun et al., 2022b) is the state-of-the-art pun generation model fine-tuned on T5 (Raffel et al., 2023), which utilizes "generate sentence: $\{p_w\}$, $\{a_w\}$" for homophonic puns and "generate sentence: $\{p_w\}$" for homographic puns as the prompt. To adapt to the Chinese pun generation, we fine-tune it on ChinesePun dataset.

**LLMs** **LLaMA2-7B** and **Baichuan2-7B** are used for generating English and Chinese puns respectively. We fine-tune these models through the standard DPO, denoted by **LLaMA2$_{\mathrm{dpo}}$** and **Baichuan2$_{\mathrm{dpo}}$** and instruction tuning denoted by **LLaMA2$_{\mathrm{sft}}$** and **Baichuan2$_{\mathrm{sft}}$** as the baseline models. For the standard DPO method, we select the negative samples with humor discriminator and structure discriminator simultaneously as in Section 4, and choose the labeled puns from pun datasets as the positive samples. Besides, we also choose **ChatGPT** as a baseline, which is used to generate puns through a few-shot prompt as shown in Appendix A.

### 6.4 Experiment Setup

The ChatGPT model we use is *gpt-3.5-turbo*.The LLaMA2-7B and Baichuan2-7B are acquired from huggingface Transformers<sup>5</sup>. We adopt AdamW optimizer (Loshchilov and Hutter, 2017), set learning rate as 5e-5 and batch size as 4. We employ the LoRA strategy (Hu et al., 2021) for fine-tuning the LLMs. For the hyperparameter in DPO training, we set $\beta = 0.5$. The temperature is set to 0.95, the top-p is set to 0.95, and the top-k is set to 5 in the decoding strategy. For the preference data sampling, we require the number of preference data pairs or triplets to reach 10,000. The details of preference data sampling can be found in Appendix B. The entire project is based on the LLaMA-Factory<sup>6</sup>, and all other settings are default parameters. All our experiments are performed on 2 RTX 3090.

<sup>5</sup>https://github.com/huggingface/transformers  
<sup>6</sup>https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory
