Hang Xu, Haoze Sun, Hongda Zhang, Hui Liu, Jiaming Ji, Jian Xie, JunTao Dai, Kun Fang, Lei Su, Liang Song, Lifeng Liu, Liuyun Ru, Luyao Ma, Mang Wang, Mickel Liu, MingAn Lin, Nuolan Nie, Peidong Guo, Ruiyang Sun, Tao Zhang, Tianpeng Li, Tianyu Li, Wei Cheng, Weipeng Chen, Xiangrong Zeng, Xiaochuan Wang, Xiaoxi Chen, Xin Men, Xin Yu, Xuehai Pan, Yanjun Shen, Yiding Wang, Yiyu Li, Youxin Jiang, Yuchen Gao, Yupeng Zhang, Zenan Zhou, and Zhiying Wu. 2023. Baichuan 2: Open large-scale language models.

Zhiwei Yu, Jiwei Tan, and Xiaojun Wan. 2018. A neural approach to pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 1650–1660, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zhiwei Yu, Hongyu Zang, and Xiaojun Wan. 2020. Homophonic pun generation with lexically constrained rewriting. In *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*, pages 2870–2876, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yao Zhao, Misha Khalman, Rishabh Joshi, Shashi Narayan, Mohammad Saleh, and Peter J Liu. 2022. Calibrating sequence likelihood improves conditional language generation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.00045*.

Daniel M. Ziegler, Nisan Stiennon, Jeffrey Wu, Tom B. Brown, Alec Radford, Dario Amodei, Paul Christiano, and Geoffrey Irving. 2020. Fine-tuning language models from human preferences.

## A Prompt Template

[Figure: prompt template box with the following text]

**Homophonic:**  
Given the pun word "$p_w$" and its homophonic alternative word "$a_w$", please generate a humorous homophonic pun. Ensure that the sentence reflects the contexts of both words and make sure the pun word "$p_w$" is present in the sentence.

**Homographic:**  
Given the pun word "$p_w$", please generate a humorous homographic pun. Ensure that the sentence reflects the contexts of different meanings and make sure the pun word "$p_w$" is present in the sentence.

Figure 4: The prompt template used in SemEval dataset.

The prompt templats we used in SFT stage, structure preference optimization and humor preference optimization are as Figure 4 and Figure 5. For the few-shot ChatGPT, Figure 6 utilized identical prompts and incorporated three data examples as context.

[Figure: Chinese prompt template box with the following text]

**Homophonic:**  
请为我编写一个幽默的句子，其中包含词语“$p_w$”和“$a_w$”。这个句子应该能够引发笑声或娱乐，并展示“$p_w$”和“$a_w$”这两个词语在幽默语境下的创意用法。你可以尝试在句子中加入意想不到的情节或转折，以增加幽默效果。请确保句子仍然通顺、自然，并具有良好的语法和逻辑结构。

**Homographic:**  
根据上述词义，请为我编写一个幽默的句子，并使用“$p_w$”这个词在一个句子中一次或多次。这个句子应该能够引发笑声或娱乐，并展示“$p_w$”这个词语在幽默语境下的创意用法。你可以尝试在句子中加入意想不到的情节或转折，以增加幽默效果。请确保句子仍然通顺、自然，并具有良好的语法和逻辑结构。

Figure 5: The prompt template used in ChinesePun dataset.

## B Preference Data Construction

**Structure Preference Data** As outlined in Section 4.1, we initially sample outputs from the SFT model using the same specifically designed prompt employed in the SFT step. Subsequently, these outputs are classified by a structural discriminator into groups of structurally compliant and non-compliant sentences. We selected 10,000 structure preference pairs randomly to do structural preference aligning.

**Humor Preference Data** We sampled outputs from the structurally optimized model and then categorized them into rumination and negative samples using the humor discriminator and structure discriminator. Concurrently, humor preference triplets are constructed based on the pun data corresponding to the used prompts, as well as the rumination and negative samples. We randomly selected 10,000 triplets for humor preference alignment.

## C Details in Experiment of DPO-H-S

As the settings of our main experiment, DPO-H-S uses the standard DPO loss at stage 1 to optimize the humor preference. We generate candidate sentences from the SFT model and use the humor discriminator to select the negative samples as we described in Section 4.1. The positive samples we used are puns from pun datasets. we use these positive samples and negative samples to do the standard humor DPO.

Then, DPO-H-S uses the new triplet alignment loss at stage 2 to optimize the structure preference. We also generate candidate sentences from the humorous optimized LLM which in the first stage. Then, we use the humor discriminator to identify the humorous sentence from candidate sentences. These sentences are used as rumination samples. The humorless sentences from candidate sentences are further fed to the structure discriminator to choose the samples that do not fit the pun structure. These samples are used as negative samples. The
