Specifically, to alleviate the effects of catastrophic forgetting in the multi-objective preference alignment, we present a novel triplets preference learning schema, which is quite different from standard DPO. To verify the broad applicability of our method in different languages, we construct a new benchmark dataset, called ChinesePun, which is the very first dataset on the Chinese pun generation task. The evaluation shows that our method significantly outperforms all the existing methods in Chinese and English, even for ChatGPT.

## 8 Limitations

In our research, we concentrate on pun generation, a niche within creative language and humor production. However, our method still fails in recognizing humor’s subjective nature. Due to diverse backgrounds and experiences, what is funny to one individual might not be to another. In our future work, we will aim at offering broader insights into humor’s variability, influenced by contextual subtleties and personal interpretations.

## 9 Acknowledgement

The authors thank all the anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments and constructive feedback. This work was supported by Ant Group Research Fund & the Science and Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality Grant (No. 22511105901).

## References

Issa Annamoradnejad and Gohar Zoghi. 2022. Colbert: Using bert sentence embedding in parallel neural networks for computational humor.

Karyn Buxman. 2008. Humor in the or: a stitch in time? *AORN journal*, 88(1), 67–77.

Stephen Casper, Xander Davies, Claudia Shi, Thomas Krendl Gilbert, Jérémy Scheurer, Javier Rando, Rachel Freedman, Tomasz Korbak, David Lindner, Pedro Freire, et al. 2023. Open problems and fundamental limitations of reinforcement learning from human feedback. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15217*.

Yuyan Chen, Zhixu Li, Jiaqing Liang, Yanghua Xiao, Bang Liu, and Yunwen Chen. 2023. Can pre-trained language models understand chinese humor? In *Proceedings of the Sixteenth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining*, WSDM ’23, page 465–480, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Delia Chiaro. 2006. *The language of jokes: Analyzing verbal play*. Routledge.

Yiming Cui, Wanxiang Che, Ting Liu, Bing Qin, Shijin Wang, and Guoping Hu. 2020. Revisiting pre-trained models for Chinese natural language processing. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020*, pages 657–668, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yiming Cui, Wanxiang Che, Ting Liu, Bing Qin, and Ziqing Yang. 2021. Pre-training with whole word masking for chinese bert. *IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing*, 29:3504–3514.

Joseph L. Fleiss and Jacob Cohen. 1973. The equivalence of weighted kappa and the intraclass correlation coefficient as measures of reliability. *Educational and Psychological Measurement*, 33:613 – 619.

Tatsunori B Hashimoto, Kelvin Guu, Yonatan Oren, and Percy S Liang. 2018. A retrieve-and-edit framework for predicting structured outputs. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, volume 31. Curran Associates, Inc.

He He, Nanyun Peng, and Percy Liang. 2019. Pun generation with surprise. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 1734–1744, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Bryan Anthony Hong and Ethel Ong. 2009. Automatically extracting word relationships as templates for pun generation. In *Proceedings of the Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity*, pages 24–31, Boulder, Colorado. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. 2021. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models.

Sophie Jentzsch and Kristian Kersting. 2023. Chatgpt is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models.

Tianqi Liu, Yao Zhao, Rishabh Joshi, Misha Khalman, Mohammad Saleh, Peter J Liu, and Jialu Liu. 2023. Statistical rejection sampling improves preference optimization. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.06657*.

Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining approach.

Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. 2017. Decoupled weight decay regularization. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.05101*.
