prompts $x$. The sentences that satisfy the pun structure by our structure discriminator described in Section 4.1 are retained, which we call "rumination" sample $y^{*}$. Then, we select negative samples $y_{\bar{h}^{*}}$ among the candidate sentences that lack humor and do not satisfy pun structures with both the structure discriminator and humor discriminator. We use the same positive samples $y^{+}$ with the standard humor DPO we described in the last section to construct the humor preference triplets $(y^{+}, y_{\bar{h}^{*}}, y^{*})$.

Then, we optimize the humor preference of the LLM with a new triplet loss:

$$
r_{\bar{h}^{*}}(\theta)=\beta(\log \pi_{\theta}(y_{\bar{h}^{*}}|x)-\log \pi_{\phi}(y_{\bar{h}^{*}}|x))
\tag{7}
$$

$$
r^{*}(\theta)=\beta(\log \pi_{\theta}(y^{*}|x)-\log \pi_{\phi}(y^{*}|x))
\tag{8}
$$

$$
\mathcal{L}_{\mathrm{I\text{-}humor\text{-}dpo}}(\theta)
= -\log \sigma(r_{\phi}^{+}(\theta)-r^{*}(\theta))
$$

$$
-\log \sigma(r^{*}(\theta)-r_{\bar{h}^{*}}(\theta))
\tag{9}
$$

where $r^{*}$ means the pseudo-reward of rumination samples; $r_{\phi}^{+}$ is same with Equation 4. The objective is to maximize the difference in reward values between positive and rumination sequences, as well as the difference between the reward values of rumination and negative sequences. We can obtain the LLM which is well aligned with both structure preference and humor preference through the above loss function.

## 5 ChinesePun Dataset

### 5.1 Data Preparation

To construct a Chinese Pun dataset, we first gathered original jokes from various sources, including Github[^2] and humor websites [^3], and obtained a dataset of 28,269 jokes. Some of these jokes have been labeled as homographic or homophonic types, while others have yet to be classified. Subsequently, we developed an automatic approach for labeling the remaining unclassified data.

We introduced a classification model to assist us in selecting homographic and homophonic puns. To achieve this, we trained the RoBERTa-Large (Liu et al., 2019) model on the humor classification dataset from CCL2018 Task4[^4], which includes homographic puns, homophonic puns and reverse jokes that have already been classified. We used the

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th rowspan="2">Type</th>
<th rowspan="2">sentences</th>
<th rowspan="2">words</th>
<th colspan="3">pun words</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>min</th>
<th>max</th>
<th>mean</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>homophonic</td>
<td>1049</td>
<td>96212</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>1.11</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>homographic</td>
<td>1057</td>
<td>91100</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>1.05</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 2: Statistics of the ChinesePun dataset

model’s output to extract candidate sentences that may contain homographic or homophonic puns. Upon processing the unclassified data, we combined the classified puns with the candidate sentences to obtain 2,394 pseudo-homophonic puns and 4,147 pseudo-homographic puns, which are used for the pun words annotation.

### 5.2 Dataset Annotation

To begin with, we utilized few-shot prompting on ChatGPT (Ouyang et al., 2022) for pre-annotation to decrease the amount of manual annotation required. Specifically, we first randomly selected three sentences each from homophonic puns and homographic puns and manually annotated them. Then, we used the original text and corresponding annotation results as examples and concatenated them with an instruction as a prompt, which was inputted into ChatGPT. We processed each sentence using ChatGPT and obtained shallow annotations.

We then revised the original text and corresponding annotation results manually. Three postgraduate students worked together to complete the annotation of the pun dataset. To ensure agreement among the annotation results, any disagreements were discussed by the entire group, and the final result was determined by the option receiving the majority of votes. To check inter-annotator agreement (IAA), we collected multiple annotations for 150 instances and measured agreement using Fleiss’ kappa (Fleiss and Cohen, 1973) ($\kappa = 0.68$), suggesting high agreement.

During the annotation process, we carefully reviewed each sentence to determine whether it contains a pun. If a sentence is found not including a pun, we removed it from the list of sentences to be annotated. This step ensured that we focus our attention solely on the sentences that require annotation and helped to improve the efficiency and accuracy of the overall annotation process.

### 5.3 Data Statistics

Upon completion of all the annotation processes, we report details of the dataset in Table 2. The

[^2]: https://github.com/liuhuanyong/ChineseHumorSentiment

[^3]: http://www.jokeji.cn; http://www.yiyixh.com/a/wenzixiaohua; http://m.jokedw.com/joke

[^4]: http://www.cips-cl.org/static/CCL2018
