[Figure: Overall framework diagram. Visible labels include “Vanilla LLM”, “Transform”, “Prompt x: Given the pun word $p_w$ and its homophonic alternative word $a_w$, please generate a humorous homophonic pun. Ensure that the sentence reflects the contexts of both words and make sure the pun word $p_w$ is present in the sentence.”, “Structure Preference Optimization”, “Positive ($y^+$) > Negative ($y_s^-$)”, “maximum likelihood”, “Structurally Optimized LLM”, “Improved Humor Preference Optimization”, “Positive ($y^+$) > Rumination ($y^*$) > Negative ($y_h^-$)”, “Final LLM”, “Structure Discriminator”, “Humor Discriminator”, “Sample”, “Parameter Transfer”, and legend “Data” / “Weight”.]

Figure 1: Overall framework of our method. "Vanilla LLM" denotes the initial SFT model (e.g., LLaMA2). Blue dotted lines represent the flow of data, while orange dotted lines indicate the flow of parameters. The "Prompt $x$" we gave in the figure originates from English homophonic puns.

as follows:

$$
r^{+}(\theta)=\beta(\log \pi_{\theta}(y^{+}|x)-\log \pi_{\mathrm{sft}}(y^{+}|x)) \tag{1}
$$

$$
r_{s}^{-}(\theta)=\beta(\log \pi_{\theta}(y_{s}^{-}|x)-\log \pi_{\mathrm{sft}}(y_{s}^{-}|x)) \tag{2}
$$

$$
\mathcal{L}_{\text{structure-dpo}}(\theta)=-\log \sigma(r^{+}(\theta)-r_{s}^{-}(\theta)) \tag{3}
$$

where $\beta$ is a temperature hyperparameter; $\pi_{\theta}$ is the language model to be optimized and $\pi_{\mathrm{sft}}$ is the SFT language model; $\sigma$ is the sigmoid function; $r^{+}$ and $r_{s}^{-}$ are the two pseudo-rewards that resemble the reward function in RLHF. DPO requires the logits from the frozen reference model (i.e., the SFT model) for both the positive and negative sequences. It enhances the performance by increasing the discrepancy between the $r^{+}$ and $r_{s}^{-}$.

**Humor Preference Alignment** In the second stage, we attempt to use the similar method to further optimize the humor preference. We use the same prompts $x$ and positive samples $y^{+}$ in the training dataset with the first stage. Then, we generate the candidate sentences from the LLMs which have been structurally optimized in the first stage. Similarly, we train a humor discriminator to judge the humor level. Specifically, for the English humor discriminator, we follow Mittal et al. (2022) to fine-tune RoBERTa-large (Liu et al., 2019) using the ColBERT dataset (Annamoradnejad and Zoghi, 2022), which comprises 200,000 examples of jokes and non-jokes for humor detection. For the Chinese humor discriminator, we use the humor recognition dataset from Chen et al. (2023), which comprises 18709 examples of jokes and 7709 examples of non-jokes, and fine-tune RoBERTa-large (Cui et al., 2020, 2021) model on the dataset. The output probability from the classification model is then employed to select negative samples $y_{h}^{-}$. Consequently, we can get the humor preference pairs $(y^{+}, y_{h}^{-})$.

Subsequently, we employ the following loss function to optimize the humor preference on the structure-optimized LLM of stage 1:

$$
r_{\phi}^{+}(\theta)=\beta(\log \pi_{\theta}(y^{+}|x)-\log \pi_{\phi}(y^{+}|x)) \tag{4}
$$

$$
r_{h}^{-}(\theta)=\beta(\log \pi_{\theta}(y_{h}^{-}|x)-\log \pi_{\phi}(y_{h}^{-}|x)) \tag{5}
$$

$$
\mathcal{L}_{\text{humor-dpo}}(\theta)=-\log \sigma(r_{\phi}^{+}(\theta)-r_{h}^{-}(\theta)) \tag{6}
$$

where $r_{\phi}^{+}$ and $r_{h}^{-}$ are the corresponding pseudo-rewards; $\pi_{\phi}$ is the language model that has been structurally optimized in stage 1.

## 4.2 Improved Humor DPO

Due to the limited training data, multi-stage preference alignment faces the issue of catastrophic forgetting, meaning that the effect of structure preference alignment decreases in stage 2. To mitigate the impact of catastrophic forgetting, we propose an improved triplet humor alignment DPO in the second stage.

Specifically, in order to preserve the model’s preference objectives of the previous stage, we initially sample candidate sentences from the structurally optimized LLMs of stage 1 using the same
