# Are U a Joke Master? Pun Generation via Multi-Stage Curriculum Learning towards a Humor LLM

**Yang Chen<sup>1,2</sup>, Chong Yang<sup>2</sup>, Tu Hu<sup>1,2</sup>, Xinhao Chen<sup>1,2</sup>, Man Lan<sup>1,3*</sup>,  
Li Cai<sup>1,4</sup>, Xinling Zhuang<sup>1</sup>, Xuan Lin<sup>2</sup>, Xin Lu<sup>2</sup>, Aiming Zhou<sup>1,3</sup>**

<sup>1</sup>School of Computer Science and Technology, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China  
<sup>2</sup>Ant Group, Shanghai, China  
<sup>3</sup>Shanghai Institute of AI for Education, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China  
<sup>4</sup>College of Computer Science and Technology, Guizhou University, Guiyang, China  
{yangchen,thu,xinhaochen,lcai2020,xinlinzhuang}@stu.ecnu.edu.cn  
{yangchong.yang,daxuan.lx,lx111333}@antgroup.com {mlan,amzhou}@cs.ecnu.edu.cn

## Abstract

Although large language models (LLMs) acquire extensive world knowledge and some reasoning abilities, their proficiency in generating humorous sentences remains a challenge. Previous research has demonstrated that the humor generation capabilities of ChatGPT are confined to producing merely 25 unique jokes. In this work, we concentrate on endowing LLMs with the ability of generating puns, a particular category of humor by preference learning method. We propose a multi-stage curriculum preference learning framework to optimize both pun structure preferences and humor preferences. Specifically, we improve the Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) algorithm to address the challenge of multi-objective alignment problem. Besides, to facilitate further advancement in this field, we collect a Chinese Pun (ChinesePun) dataset, containing 2.1k puns and corresponding annotations. Experimental results on both Chinese and English benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms all the baseline models.

## 1 Introduction

Humor serves various purposes and offers numerous benefits for humans, including the relief of anxiety, avoidance of painful emotions, and facilitation of learning (Buxman, 2008). However, it remains a challenge to let machines generate humorous sentences as humans (Jentzsch and Kersting, 2023). Empowering LLMs with a sense of humor has become an increasingly important topic in the field of natural language generation. As a particular category of humor, the creative utilization of puns, wordplay, and ambiguity plays a significant role in humor generation (Chiaro, 2006). Puns, utilizing identical or phonetically similar words, are categorized into homographic and homophonic types (Miller et al., 2017). Homographic puns play on different meanings of the same word; for instance, ’all right’ can signify ’satisfactory’ or ’not left’. This word creates humor through contrasting interpretations within context. On the other hand, homophonic puns involve words with similar sounds but distinct meanings, like ’weak’ and ’week’.

As pun generation aims to generate a pun to create humorous effects given a pair of pun word and alternative word as shown in Table 1, it substantially contains two targets: pun structure and humor effect. Generating puns requires vast world knowledge and common sense (Sun et al., 2022b). Due to the constrained model size, previous approaches (He et al., 2019; Tian et al., 2022; Sun et al., 2022b) primarily achieve limited performance improvement. With the rise of LLMs, the ability to generate text has been greatly improved. However, Jentzsch and Kersting (2023) reveal that LLMs’ proficiency in generating humorous sentences and puns still remains a challenge. To further improve the capability of LLMs on an alternative aspect, preference learning/alignment has become one of the most commonly used approaches (Casper et al., 2023). Directly utilizing preference learning methods like Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) (Rafailov et al., 2023) in pun generation is not very efficient because we need to align both the pun structure preference and humor preference at the same time on a relatively small-scale dataset.

To address this problem, we propose a multi-stage curriculum learning framework to generate a sentence satisfying both the provided pun structure and high humorous level. Inspired by the paradigm of curriculum learning which learns samples from easy to hard, our model learns the two preference targets separately from easy to hard, i.e., first learns pun structure preference in stage 1, and then learns humor preference in stage 2. Specifically, to address the inherent catastrophic forgetting problem

\* Corresponding author.
