### 2.2 Preference Learning

Preference learning/alignment, especially via Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) (Ziegler et al., 2020), is a prominent trend catalyzed by advancements in LLMs like ChatGPT (Ouyang et al., 2022), LLaMA (Touvron et al., 2023), and Baichuan (Yang et al., 2023). However, RLHF faces challenges such as instability, inefficiency, and vulnerability to exploitation (Casper et al., 2023; Skalse et al., 2022). Addressing these issues, novel methods have emerged, notably Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) (Rafailov et al., 2023), which aligns models with reference ones using paired preferences, enhancing efficiency and stability. Statistical Rejection Sampling Optimization (RSO) (Liu et al., 2023), an advancement building on DPO and SLiC (Zhao et al., 2022), employs rejection sampling for more effective optimization. Additionally, Xu et al. (2023) introduces a contrastive post-training curriculum, progressively shifting from simpler to harder preference pairs to improve efficacy. In contrast to these works, we introduce a new multi-stage curriculum learning framework and a triplet preference learning loss aiming at enhancing the stability of multi-objective preference alignment in the task of pun generation.

## 3 Problem Definition

The input to our system consists of a *pun word pair*, which includes a pun word ($p_w$, e.g., *weak*) and a corresponding alternative word ($a_w$, e.g., *week*). $p_w$ are defined as words that evoke humor by possessing conflicting and ambiguous meanings within jokes. In the case of homophonic puns, the pun words have a homonym $a_w$ with the same or similar pronunciation but different meanings. For homographic puns where the pun word carries dual meanings that are logically coherent within the context, we adopt a same representation, setting $p_w = a_w$, following Tian et al. (2022). The objective is typically to generate a pun that contains $p_w$ with high humorous level, e.g., *"I lift weights only on Saturday and Sunday because Monday to Friday are weak days."* Thus, the generated pun should comply with two conditions: pun structure (e.g., containing pun word) and humorous.

## 4 Methodology

### 4.1 Multi-Stage Curriculum Learning

Different from direct preference alignment on LLMs, we present a multi-stage curriculum learning framework to offer a smoother and more effective preference learning trajectory on pun generation. We utilize the Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) method in two stages to steer the model toward optimizing two key preferences: pun ***structure*** and ***humor***. As illustrated in Figure 1, the framework, which we called *Pun Generation with Curriculum Learning* (**PGCL**), comprises two main components: (i) a structure preference optimization module (top) designed to enhance the LLM’s ability to satisfy pun structures in the first stage, and (ii) a humor preference optimization module (bottom) aimed at aligning with the more challenging humor preference in the second stage.

**Structure Preference Alignment** In this stage, we optimize the structure preference of LLMs with the DPO algorithm. Given a pun word and alternative word pair ($p_w, a_w$), we transform it to a prompt $x$ with the designed template (e.g., for English homophonic puns, the prompt template is *"Given the pun word ’$p_w$’ and its homophonic alternative word ’$a_w$’, please generate a humorous homophonic pun. Ensure that the sentence reflects the contexts of both words and make sure the pun word ’$p_w$’ is present in the sentence."*. Other prompt templates can be found in Appendix A).

DPO is an offline preference optimization technique that takes a pre-computed pair of positive samples $y^+$ and negative samples $y^-$, both corresponding to the same prompt $x$. We make the labeled pun in the training dataset the positive sample $y^+$. Then, we produce negative samples using SFT LLMs (e.g., LLaMA2). Specifically, we randomly generate a pun with the prompt $x$, and introduce a structure discriminator to judge whether the pun satisfies the structure: 1) for English homographic and Chinese homographic puns, as $p_w = a_w$, we actually only need $p_w$ present in the sentence. 2) For English homophonic puns, based on the settings of SemEval dataset, the sentence must have $p_w$ without $a_w$. 3) For Chinese homophonic puns, both $p_w$ and $a_w$ must be presented in the sentence. If the generated pun does **NOT** comply with the above structure, we accept it as the negative sample $y_s^-$. Consequently, we construct the structure preference pairs $(y^+, y_s^-)$ to do structure DPO.

Following the standard DPO algorithm which aims to increase the likelihood of the positive example while reducing that of the negative example. The loss function of the structure DPO is presented
