(2009). Being bored? Recognising natural interest by extensive audiovisual integration for real-life application. *Image and Vision Computing*, 27:1760–1774.

Shriberg, E., Dhillon, R., Bhagat, S., Ang, J., and Carvey, H. (2004). The ICSI Meeting Recorder Dialog Act (MRDA ) Corpus. *Proceedings of the 5th SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue*, pages 97–100.

Tanaka, H. and Campbell, N. (2011). Acoustic Features of Four Types of Laughter. In *Proceedings ICPhS*, pages 1958–1961.

Team, R. C. (2012). R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing.

Thompson, H. S., Anderson, A. H., Bard, E. G., and Doherty- . . ., G. (1993). The HCRC Map Task corpus: natural dialogue for speech recognition. *Proceedings of the workshop on Human Language Technology*, pages 25–30.

Thorson, J. A. and Powell, F. C. (1993). Sense of humor and dimensions of personality. *Journal of Clinical Psychology*, 49(6):799–809.

Trouvain, J. (2003). Segmenting phonetic units in laughter. *Proceedings ICPhS*, pages 2793–2796.

Truong, K. P. and Trouvain, J. (2012). Laughter Annotations in Conversational Speech Corpora - Possibilities and Limitations for Phonetic Analysis. *Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Corpora for Research on Emotion Sentiment and Social Signals*, pages 20–24.

Truong, K. P., Trouvain, J., and Jansen, M.-p. (2019). Towards an annotation scheme for complex laughter in speech corpora. In *20th Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication Association*, page 5.

Urbain, J., Bevacqua, E., Dutoit, T., Moinet, A., Niewiadomski, R., Pelachaud, C., Picart, B., Tilmanne, J., and Wagner, J. (2010). The AVLaughterCycle Database. In *Proceedings -The International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation*, number Section 11, pages 2996–3001.

Valstar, M. and Pantic, M. (2010). Induced Disgust, Happiness and Surprise: an Addition to the MMI Facial Expression Database. In *proceedings -The International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation*, pages 65–70.

Ypofanti, M., Zisi, V., Zourbanos, N., Mouchtouri, B., Tzanne, P., Theodorakis, Y., and Lyrakos, G. (2015). Psychometric properties of the International Personality Item Pool Big-Five personality questionnaire for the Greek population. *Health Psychology Research*, 3(2).

Zheng, L., Goldberg, L. R., Zheng, Y., Zhao, Y., Tang, Y., and Liu, L. (2008). Reliability and Concurrent Validation of the IPIP Big-Five Factor Markers in China: Consistencies in Factor Structure between Internet-Obtained Heterosexual and Homosexual Samples. *Pers Individ Dif.*, 45(7):649–654.
