### 3.3. Recording Set-up

After completing the consent form and questionnaires, participant pairs were led into the experiment room. They were seated opposite of each other at a table with letter indications corresponding to the participants letter ID (A or B). Cameras were placed on both sides of the table at fixed locations, pointing towards the participant sitting on the opposite side of the table. See Figure 2 for an example of how participants were placed during the sessions. Camera height and zoom was manually adjusted to record the most optimal frame. Each participant wore a lavalier microphone around the neck. As described in the previous section, each participant was equipped with three separate Shimmer devices; the EXG+ unit, the GSR+ unit and the IMU unit. These were placed respectively, on the torso, the wrist of the dominant hand and the wrist of the non-dominant hand.

[Figure: Recording setup diagram showing participants seated at a table, cameras, light sources, instructions, lavalier microphones, and experimenter position. Readable labels include “Participants”, “Experimenter”, “Light source”, “Camera”, “Instructions”, and “Lavalier mic.”]

Figure 2: *Recording setup displaying the positions of the participants, light sources, recording equipment and experimenter during the sessions.*

### 3.4. Recording Protocol and tasks

All participants performed several task-based scenarios during the data collection. These tasks were chosen on the basis of their potential to induce social-, conversational- and mirthful laughter through both open and structured tasks. Participant specific task instructions and questionnaires were handed out before the start of the recording. Special effort was made by the experimenters to rehearse task instructions verbally, to make sure that participants understood all instructions since some tasks were more ambiguous in nature than others. After each task, the participants filled in a questionnaire containing questions on whether they laughed during the task and humour rating scales.

#### 3.4.1. Survival task

The first task consisted of a modified ‘survival’-task and was used to habituate participants to the setting and experiment protocol. This task is often deployed in the field of psychology and was first deployed by NASA to test and foster collaboration skills. Participants were instructed to imagine that they were stranded on an uninhabited island and needed to survive for a couple of months. The participants were then asked to construct a list of 10 items they wanted to take with them and both agreed on. The task ended after 3 minutes. Participants often constructed a list in less than the prespecified amount of time, which gave them some residual time for spontaneous chatter. During and after the task, spontaneous and conversational laughter often occurred. The experimenter would come in after three minutes and would tell the participants they were now allowed to proceed to the next task. Data of this task is missing in three sessions.

#### 3.4.2. Make the other laugh task

The ‘make the other laugh’-task was developed by the experimenters with the goal of eliciting humour related and social laughter. Participants had either the instruction to make the other person laugh as much as possible or the instruction to follow the conversation. No further guidance or suggestions were given to the participants. These general instructions give room to more unstructured conversations and a diversity of laughter eliciting techniques. This task contains two 2 minute rounds, where the participants would switch roles between rounds. Participants were kept blind to their conversation partners instructions for each round and were asked not to discuss their instructions.

#### 3.4.3. Joke telling task

The third task involved three identical rounds where both participants told each other a joke. This ‘joke telling’-task was designed to be a more controlled alternative to the ‘make the other laugh’-task. It is designed to elicit a lot of humour related laughter in a more controlled setting with less conversations. At the start of the third task, the participants were instructed to tell jokes to each other. Participants selected three jokes from their stack of jokes that were collected beforehand by the researchers and were distributed randomly into two stacks.

A bonus round was introduced to the participants in which they were instructed to either tell a joke they had prepared in advance, look up a joke and prepare it on the spot or select a joke that was left in their stack. They were asked to pick something that they thought was funny and would make the other participant laugh. This bonus round gave participants the opportunity to use a joke that tailors more to their preferences and knowledge about what their conversation partner might enjoy.

After the initial data recording, participants participated in a brief emotion induction task involving pictures from the IAPS database (Lang et al., 1997). This will not be included in the current database since it is outside of the scope of our current goals.

### 3.5. Segmentation and Synchronization of Data Streams

Since the audio-, video- and physiological data are captured with multiple devices, manual synchronization was required. To ease this labour, the participants of the session were instructed to produce a simultaneous clap after counting down together before and after several tasks during each session. Participants would count down and then clap their hands at the same time. These simultaneous handclaps ensures a multimodal peak signal over multiple devices worn
