voiced laughter often is associated with higher humour ratings. McKeown and Curran (2015) also explored the relationship between laughter and perceived humour. They found a strong relationship between perceived humour and perceived laughter intensity by these raters.

Beside humour ratings from the participants, other available data can help with exploring the previously mentioned link between humour and expressive laughter patterns. The database provides access to synchronised physiological data modalities uncommon in other databases, which includes movement (IMU)[^1], heart-rate (ECG)[^2] and skin conductance (GSR)[^3] data of each participant. Personality profiles have been captured with multiple personality questionnaires and can give insight into individual differences of participants. Some scientific work highlights a link between personality and humour, for example Thorson and Powell (1993) demonstrate in an early study the link between sense of humour and personality attributes. This paper introduces the MULAI database, a new multimodal social laughter database that focuses on different forms of laughter including laughter from a conversational setting and laughter elicited through humour in a social setting. The main goal of this database is to provide researchers with data to study social expressive patterns of laughter and address the challenges previously mentioned. In this study, we use these annotations to further explore the link between the expressive patterns and properties of laughter and perceived humour in two different settings.

## 2. Related work

Databases can be divided in three groups based on the level of social interaction in which the laughter is recorded; single participant recordings, recordings of dyadic interactions between participants, and multi-party recordings often in the form of meetings focusing on a central theme. Social laughter frequently occurs in both dyadic and multi-party based recordings, but each serves its own purpose since interaction dynamics can be very different for both settings. Table 1 gives an overview of frequently accessed databases that contain laughter. We will now discuss each of these social settings separately.

### 2.1. Single participant, non-interaction databases

Single participant databases like the AVLC- (Urbain et al., 2010), MANHOB- (Petridis et al., 2013), MMI-V- (Valstar and Pantic, 2010) and the Montreal database (Belin et al., 2008) often do not contain social laughter since no interactions are recorded. During the recordings, the participants in these databases are usually asked to either produce laughter on command (posed laughter) or watch some stimuli in the form of pictures or movies aimed at inducing laughter. In this category only the MANHOB-database created by Petridis et al. (2013) contains other modalities outside of the usual audio- and video modalities.

[^1]: Inertial Measurement Units  
[^2]: Electrocardiogram sensors  
[^3]: Galvanic Skin Response

### 2.2. Dyadic interaction databases

Dyadic conversational databases are the most prevalent form of databases, examples include the DUEL- (Hough et al., 2008), AVIC- (Schuller et al., 2009), DD- (Cohn et al., 2009), DiapixUK- (Baker and Hazan, 2011), HCRC- (Thompson et al., 1993) and the SEMAINE database (McKeown et al., 2007). Laughter inducing tasks, scenarios and conversational topics are often deployed in this category of databases. Interestingly, the DD database used natural recordings of real clinical interviews with participants. However, due to the focus of the DD database, recorded laughter is relatively uncommon. The database we introduce in this paper, the MULAI database, also contains recordings of dyadic interactions.

### 2.3. Multi-party interaction databases

Multi-party databases contain laughter that is produced in a social setting with multiple participants. Examples of multi-party databases that contain laughter annotations are, MMLI (Niewiadomski et al., 2013), ICSI-MRDA (Shriberg et al., 2004) and the AMI database (Mccowan et al., 2005). The creators of these databases often record natural, meetings on specific topics or asked participants to play out a scenario. The MMLI database takes a different approach, here participants were asked to watch funny video clips or play social games in groups, in addition some dyadic interactions were recorded.

Table 1 reveals that not many databases that are specifically focused on laughter include other modalities outside of the audio- and visual modalities. Only the MMLI (Niewiadomski et al., 2013), DUEL (Hough et al., 2008), ILHAIRE (McKeown et al., 2012) and MANHOB (Petridis et al., 2013) database provide other modalities to study when researching laughter. With the exception of the MMLI, these databases focus on body movement. The MULAI database is in this way uniquely positioned since it provides body movement, ECG and GSR data. These less commonly available modalities can be leveraged by interested researchers.

## 3. The MULAI Database

The MULAI database contains 13 sessions of dyadic human-human interactions with social conversational laughter and humour induced laughter, totalling 357 minutes of recorded video-, audio- and physiological data streams. The annotated part of the MULAI database spans 134 minutes and is rich in laughter related events with 601 annotated laughter bouts, 168 annotated speech-laughs and 538 laughter related events (mostly related to on-/offset breaths). This database provides researchers with the data to study the expressive patterns of conversational laughter.

### 3.1. Participants

Students from a course were asked to find a participant from outside the course and participate together in a data collection session. In total 32 participants participated over a span of 16 sessions. From this group, 6 participants are not included in the database as they did not give consent for incorporating their data in the MULAI database. This results in a database of 26 participants (age M = 24, SD = 2.3
