Table 3: *Estimates of the fixed effects (all acoustic properties of annotated laughter) on humour annotation scores by the conversation partner using a Linear Mixed Model with subject, gender and task as random effects.*

|  | $\beta$ | SE | CI | $P$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Conversation |  |  |  |  |
| Duration | 0.0956 | 0.0527 | -0.008/0.1993 | 0.0707 |
| Pitch | 0.0010 | 0.0004 | 0.0001/0.0019 | **0.0239** |
| Intensity | 0.0234 | 0.0062 | 0.0110/0.0358 | **0.0002** |
| Joke-telling |  |  |  |  |
| Duration | -0.0675 | 0.0327 | -0.1320/-0.0024 | **0.0413** |
| Pitch | 0.0003 | 0.0005 | -0.0007/0.0013 | 0.5712 |
| Intensity | 0.0163 | 0.0071 | 0.0023/0.0302 | **0.0226** |

offers modalities that are unique among laughter databases. In addition the MULAI database offers data on individual differences of the participants in the form of personality questionnaires and it offers perceived and experienced humour ratings from participants.  
With its unique contents, the database lends itself for several research interests including but not limited to exploratory research on individual differences in laughter expressions, inter-individual laughter synchronization and mimicry and the link between perceived humour and properties of social laughter.

## 5.1. Discussion of results

The link between perceived humour and properties of social laughter was explored using the MULAI database, we tested whether specific laugh properties are related to how people judge their own humorousness and how their conversation partner judged them. The results show that for our sample, there was no significant correlation between the duration, pitch and intensity of laughs and how people judged themselves. However, the intensity of the person’s laugh does seem to correlate with how his or her conversation partner judges them in both task settings and is in line with the results of some of the previous research (McKeown and Curran, 2015). A difference between both studies is how the intensity ratings are obtained. Where the aforementioned research focuses on human annotation of intensity focuses through crowd-sourcing techniques, our study uses the acoustic intensity extracted from the speech signal. The pitch of laughter in the conversational task setting was positively and significantly correlated with how humorous conversational partners rated their interlocutor, which is in line with other studies who used pitch as an indicator for how mirthful laughter is (Petridis and Pantic, 2009). There was no significant correlation for pitch and perceived humour in the joke-telling task. The duration of laughter is also significantly correlated to the perceived humour from conversation partners, the longer the laughs were, the lower perceived humour ratings seemed to be in our sample. This was only the case in the joke telling task, although for the conversational task the (positive) correlation is close to the significance threshold. We did not find an explanation for the correlation between laughter duration and perceived humour in literature.

Two general trends that seem to appear in our results are particularly interesting, First we see a difference between self ratings and perceived ratings and how these correlate with acoustic properties of laughter. One possible explanation for this is that self-raters have access to specific information and knowledge to determine their own ratings whereas his/her conversational partner does not have access to this information and knowledge, and therefore rely more on observable factors for their ratings. A different explanation of these observations can be found in the (modified) affect induction theory of laughter (Curran et al., 2018), which proposes that one of the main purposes of laughter is to induce positive affect in others. In addition they suggest that laughter signals on themselves are fairly ambiguous and perceivers use social context and the intensity of laugh signals to interpret the meaning of these laugh signals.  
Second, it is interesting to see differences in the results are dependent on the task setting. The results seem to suggest that the correlations between acoustic properties of laughter and perceived humour ratings are task dependent, which could be pointing towards the social context-sensitive nature of laughter and other communicative expressions (Curran et al., 2018; Jansen, 2019).  
We observe that the significant correlations in general are small, it could be the case that other unexplored factors show stronger correlations. A contextual factor that could be further investigated is the content of the jokes or the strategy that participants deployed to make their conversation partner laugh.

## 5.2. Future work

Several additions are planned as part of our future work with the database and are in part depended on available resources. First we plan to provide speech transcripts, annotations of strategies used by participants to make his/her conversational partner laugh and degrees of familiarity between participant pairs. These additions can be beneficial to researchers interested in leveraging these forms of context to study laughter and humour. Second, we plan to expand annotation for the ‘survival’-task, this collaboration task is rich in conversational laughter and includes some open non-task-related interactions which could be interesting to researchers looking to study laughter in natural conversations. Finally, since the authors are interested in the function and context of individual laughs, we are considering to add new annotations describing these aspects.  
With the MULAI database we contribute to the research of humour perception, social- and contextual laughter and hope to encourage other researchers to further push our understanding of these topics.

## 6. Availability

The MULAI database will be made available to the research community after official publication. An individual license is needed for access to the questionnaire-, video-, audio- and physiological data of the MULAI database. Please contact the authors for updates and availability of the database.
