Table 1: *Existing databases containing laughter annotations. From left to right: database, elicitation method or source of laughter, recorded modalities (A= audio, AV = audio-visual, BM = body movement, Resp = respiration, TM = thermal camera), reference.*

| Database | Elicitation procedure | Recorded modalities | Reference |
|---|---|---|---|
| No interaction |  |  |  |
| AVLC | Watching funny video clips | AV | Urbain et al. (2010) |
| MANHOB | Watching funny video clips and posed laughter | AV, TM | Petridis et al. (2013) |
| MMI-V | Watching funny audio and video clips | AV | Valstar and Pantic (2010) |
| Montreal | Laughter during posed emotional vocalizations | A | Belin et al. (2008) |
| Dyadic interaction |  |  |  |
| **MULAI** | **Conversational and humour elicited laughter** | **AV, BM, ECG, GSR** | **-** |
| DUEL | Conversational laughter | AV, BM | Hough et al. (2008) |
| AVIC | Laughter during played out scenarios | AV | Schuller et al. (2009) |
| DD | Laughter during clinical interviews | AV | Cohn et al. (2009) |
| DiapixUK | Conversational laughter | A | Baker and Hazan (2011) |
| HCRC | Conversational laughter | A | Thompson et al. (1993) |
| SEMAINE | Laughter during conversations with agents | AV | McKeown et al. (2007) |
| Multi-party interaction |  |  |  |
| MMLI | Watching funny video clips and social games | AV, BM, Resp | Niewiadomski et al. (2013) |
| ICSI MRDA | Recorded meetings on several topics | A | Shriberg et al. (2004) |
| AMI | Recorded meetings and scenario driven meetings | AV | Mccowan et al. (2005) |
| ILHAIRE | Selection of multiple other databases | AV, BM | McKeown et al. (2012) |

years), consisting of 14 male and 12 female participants. Most of the participating pairs were at least to some extent familiar with each other. A majority of the participants are Dutch (N=17) and in addition, some international students participated in the study. All participants spoke English.

## 3.2. Measurements

All participants were equipped with a similar set of microphones, cameras and sensors. Visual data of the face and upper body was captured with two Panasonic HC-V180EG-K cameras. Videos were shot with a resolution of 1920 x 1080 at 50 hz. Audio data was recorded with a Shure BLX14E-M17 wireless microphone set (in combination with a Zoom H6) to capture high quality audio at 48 kHz.

Physiological data was captured using Shimmer sensor units at a sampling rate of 512 hz. Participants wore three different units, respectively around both wrists and one on the chest, figure 1 shows how participants wore the different sensors.

[Figure: photograph of two participants seated at a table interacting; visible sensors and cameras are encircled in different colors.]

Figure 1: *An example of participants interacting during one of the sessions of the experiment, all visible sensors are encircled. Each color represents a different kind of sensor (indigo = over-the-shoulder cameras, turquoise = EXG+ units, red = regular IM units, green = GSR+ units and orange = lavalier microphones)*

All Shimmer units capture inertial movement (IM) with 9 degrees of freedom, which is obtained through accelerometers, a gyroscope and a magnetometer. Additionally the Shimmer GSR+ unit obtains data on the Galvanic Skin Response (skin conductance response) and was placed on the wrist of the dominant hand, the Shimmer EXG+ unit retrieved electrocardiograph data from electrodes placed on each participants torso.

Besides sensor data, questionnaires were filled in by the participants to retrieve information on how humourous they perceived themselves and how humourous they perceived their conversation partner. These questionnaires contained a self-rating scale with the statement ‘I think I was funny’ and a perceived-rating scale with the statement ‘the other was very funny’. Both are five point Likert scales and have an answer range from ‘completely disagree’ to ‘completely agree’. In addition, the Likert scales were accompanied with emoticons reflecting different states of amusement to make answering the statements more intuitive for the participants.

Finally, questionnaire data has been retrieved that facilitates researchers interested in participant profiles. In order to learn more about participants’ personalities and preferences, participants filled in the Ten Item Personality Inventory (TIPI) (Gosling et al., 2003) and the International Personality Item Pool (IPIP-50-R) (Goldberg et al., 2006). Both questionnaires have reasonably to good psychometric qualities across different cultures (Jonason et al., 2011; Ypofanti et al., 2015; Zheng et al., 2008; Romero et al., 2012). The TAS-20 (Bagby et al., 1994a; Bagby et al., 1994b) was deployed to make predictions about the introspective qualities of participants. A demographic questionnaire was also presented to the participants. All questionnaires were filled in directly after participants signed an informed consent form and before further data collection.
