[Figure: Three rows of violin plots titled “Pairwise quantity and distribution of acoustic properties for laughter.” Y-axes: “Duration (sec.)”, “raw mean pitch hz.”, and “Mean intensity (dB.).” X-axis participant pairs: 01, 02, 03, 05, 06, 08, 09, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16; bottom row includes counts n=56, n=61, n=48, n=38, n=33, n=33, n=48, n=17, n=74, n=48, n=34, n=53, n=58. Legends: Gender—Female, Male; Relationship—Colleagues, Students, Friends, Partners; Nationality—Germany, Greece, India, Italy, Taiwan, Netherlands.]

Figure 4: *Violin plots showing the quantity of laughs and a distribution on three different acoustic properties of laughter for each of the 13 conversational pairs in the MULAI corpus. Each number on the x-axis represents a specific participant pair in our database and in addition the number of laughs for the pair is shown on the last row, the y axis represents an acoustic property depending on the row (duration, mean pitch, mean intensity). The left and right part of the violin plot represent the distributions of laughs for individual participants of the each pair respectively. The legends show information on important participant characteristics of each pair.*

into account, who arguably have a better understanding and knowledge of this context then third party annotators. For the rest of this section we therefore explore the relation between acoustic properties of laughter and the perceived humour scores of the interlocutors. We will explore three questions:

1. How do self-rated humour and perceived humour by conversational partners correlate?

2. How do acoustic properties (pitch, intensity, duration) of laughter correlate with self-rated humour?

3. How do acoustic properties (pitch, intensity, duration) of laughter correlate with perceived humour?

We will exclude speech-laughter from the analysis due to its complex and ambiguous nature and focus on what we identify as ‘laughter bouts’ in the annotation section.

### 4.1. Methods and statistical analysis

To investigate the relationship between participant humour self-ratings and the ratings they received from their conversation partner during the conversational tasks and the joke-telling tasks, we performed two Pearson Rank Correlation tests using R (Team, 2012).

Furthermore we investigated the relationship between humour self-annotation and acoustic properties of social laughter. We carried out a separate analysis for the two different task settings since they are different in their contents and context. Using Praat, we extracted three acoustic prop-
