erties from annotated laughter; mean pitch, mean intensity and duration. We then performed a linear mixed effects analysis of the relationship between the extracted acoustic properties of laughter and the self annotated humour using the lme4 package (Bates et al., 2015) and lmerTest package (Kuznetsova et al., 2017). In our model we used mean pitch, mean intensity and duration as predictors. Since our observations and visualisations indicate that acoustic laughter properties vary between pairs, subjects and genders, we wanted to control for this and therefore included pairs, subject and gender as random intercepts for our model. To answer the question if perceived humour ratings of conversational partners are correlated with acoustic properties of produced laughter we used the same model, replacing self ratings with the ratings of conversational partners.

## 4.2. Results

First we explored the relationship between how people judged themselves and how their conversation partner judged them, Figure 5 shows a relative distribution of the difference scores between self ratings and those from conversational partners. A difference score of 0 indicates agreement among self- and perceived ratings. The histogram shows a larger percentage of participants agreeing on the humour ratings for the conversational tasks compared to those of the joke-telling tasks. Considering the joke-telling task, people tended to rate themselves less humorous compared to how their conversation partners scored them.

[Figure: Histogram titled “Agreement scores between annotators” showing grouped bars for task setting: Conversational and Joke–telling. Y-axis: “Percentage of task ratings” with ticks 0.0%, 5.0%, 10.0%, 15.0%. X-axis: “Difference in self– and perceiver humour ratings” with ticks from -4 to 4.]

Figure 5: *A histogram showing the difference in humour ratings between self ratings and perceiver ratings for both conversational and joke-telling tasks. A score of 0 means that self-raters and perceivers agreed upon how funny a person is. A positive difference score indicates a higher self rating were a negative difference score indicates a lower self rating compared to the perceiver.*

Results from a Pearson rank test show a non-significant small positive correlation between the scores ($\rho$ = 0.03, p = 0.527) during the conversational tasks. Humour annotation scores ($\rho$ = 0.22, p<.001) for the joke-telling tasks show a significant positive relationship. This shows that participants in joke-telling tasks seemed to score themselves similarly with how others scored them with respect to humour, where no such significant correlation was found for participants in the conversational task setting.

To answer if there is a correlation between humour self ratings and the duration, pitch and intensity of laughs we performed a linear mixed model analysis described in the previous section. The results of this model can be viewed in table 2 and show that in our sample there was no significant correlation between how participants rated themselves and the acoustic properties of the laughter they produced during the interactions in either of the two task settings. Worth mentioning is that the mean pitch of laughter within conversational tasks is close to being significantly correlated with humour self ratings.

Table 2: *Estimates of the fixed effects (all acoustic properties of annotated laughter) on humour self-annotation using a Linear Mixed Model with subject, gender and task as random effects.*

|  | $\beta$ | SE | CI | $P$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Conversation |  |  |  |  |
| Duration | -0.0797 | 0.0684 | -0.2169/0.0531 | 0.2447 |
| Pitch | -0.0011 | 0.0006 | -0.0022/0.0006 | 0.0619 |
| Intensity | -0.0093 | 0.0081 | -0.0259/0.0065 | 0.2543 |
| joke-telling |  |  |  |  |
| Duration | -0.0106 | 0.0335 | -0.0850/0.0525 | 0.7500 |
| Pitch | 0.0006 | 0.0005 | -0.0004/0.0017 | 0.2300 |
| Intensity | 0.0014 | 0.0072 | -0.0129/0.0155 | 0.850 |

Second, we explored whether acoustic properties of laughter produced by a participant correlated with how their conversation partner judged their sense of humour. The results can be viewed in table 3. Interestingly, in both task settings there are correlations between how people laugh and how humorous they were perceived. In the conversational task setting, mean pitch and intensity of the laugh were significantly correlated and showed a positive correlation with the rating by the conversation partner. So the higher the pitch and intensity of laughs, the higher the humour ratings of the conversation partner during the conversational tasks. For the joke-telling task we see a significant negative correlation between the duration of laughs and the conversation partner humour ratings and a significant positive correlation between the intensity of laughter and conversation partner humour ratings. The longer the laughter surrounding the jokes, the lower the scores of conversation partners were. In contrast, the more intense the laughs were, the higher the perceived humour ratings by the conversation partners were. In the next section we will further reflect upon these results.

# 5. Discussion and future work

In this paper we introduced the MULAI database, a dyadic laughter database designed for researching the expressive patterns of social laughter in several different contextual settings. These settings include more open, conversational tasks and more structured joke telling tasks. The database
