*Proceedings of the 12th Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2020), pages 4333–4342*  
Marseille, 11–16 May 2020  
© European Language Resources Association (ELRA), licensed under CC-BY-NC

# Introducing MULAI: A Multimodal Database of Laughter during Dyadic Interactions

**Michel-Pierre Jansen\***, **Khiet P. Truong\***, **Deniece S. Nazareth\* †**, **Dirk K.J. Heylen\***  
\*University of Twente - Human Media Interaction  
{m.jansen-1, k.p.truong, d.k.j.heylen}@utwente.nl  
†University of Twente - Psychology, Health and Technology  
d.s.nazareth@utwente.nl

## Abstract

Although laughter has gained considerable interest from a diversity of research areas, there still is a need for laughter specific databases. We present the Multimodal Laughter during Interaction (MULAI) database to study the expressive patterns of conversational and humour related laughter. The MULAI database contains 2 hours and 14 minutes of recorded and annotated dyadic human-human interactions and includes 601 laughs, 168 speech-laughs and 538 on- or offset respirations. This database is unique in several ways; 1) it focuses on different types of social laughter including conversational- and humour related laughter, 2) it contains annotations from participants, who understand the social context, on how humourous they perceived themselves and their interlocutor during each task, and 3) it contains data rarely captured by other laughter databases including participant personality profiles and physiological responses. We use the MULAI database to explore the link between acoustic laughter properties and annotated humour ratings over two settings. The results reveal that the duration, pitch and intensity of laughs from participants do not correlate with their own perception of how humourous they are, however the acoustics of laughter do correlate with how humourous they are being perceived by their conversational partner.

**Keywords:** database, dyadic, interaction, audio, video, physiological, social laughter, acoustic properties, self-ratings, perceiver-ratings, humour

## 1. Introduction

Many theories exist about the exact origin and function of laughter (Gervais and Wilson, 2005), however most theorists agree that laughter plays a major role in day to day social interactions between humans. Laughter can be complex and displayed through multiple modalities including vocal expressions, facial expressions and body movements. Some research points out that (prosodic) laughter properties differ depending on the social function and situation of the laughter (Campbell, 2007; Tanaka and Campbell, 2011), whereas others (Curran et al., 2018; Owren and Bachorowski, 2003) argue that for most prosodic features the evidence is inconclusive and point towards social context for a better understanding of laughter. In addition, knowledge about how multimodal signals of expressive patterns of laughter interact with each other is still rather limited (Niewiadomski et al., 2013).

Hence, to study laughter and its expressive patterns within the social context, databases with social interactions are needed that contain annotated laughter sequences. Although several databases containing annotated laughter are available to the research community, they are often not specifically designed for the research of functionally different laughs within a social setting. The difficulty of studying laughter from such databases is that laughs often are elicited outside of a social context and therefore miss the specific nuances, different functional properties, and temporal sensitive nature of social laughter.

Laughter databases that focus on different forms of social laughter, frequently focus on a single modality such as audio- or visual data and lack other modalities that could be interesting to the community such as physiological signals. In addition, laughter annotation procedures and quality varies between and within currently available databases, partly due to having other goals or the lack of an at the time widely accepted and used laughter annotation scheme and procedure. This variety in annotation quality makes it challenging to do analysis on more finely grained aspects of conversational laughter and comparing laughter data from different databases.

With the MULAI database, we introduce a database that focuses on different types of social laughter based on their function and social situation. Two of the prevalent forms of laughter that occur in the database are laughs that occurs in more open, conversational tasks and laughs that are elicited during joke telling tasks and seem to be more humour related. Humour annotations were collected from interlocutors who each reported how humourous they perceived themselves and how humourous they perceived their conversational partner after each task. One of the advantages of annotation method is that interlocutors can leverage their past experiences together with knowledge of the current social context and make more accurate judgements compared to third party annotators that often have limited knowledge of the context. Our previous work highlights the importance and benefits of having annotators with a good understanding of the context where the annotated behaviour is expressed (Dudzik et al., 2019).

The humour annotations from the interlocutors can be used to study the relationship between the characteristics of different types of laughter and perceived humour. The link between properties of laughter and perceived humour has had some attention (Gervais and Wilson, 2005; Petridis and Pantic, 2009; McKeown and Curran, 2015; Curran et al., 2018), however these studies used third party annotators that lack contextual knowledge. Petridis and Pantic (2009) investigated how perceived humour ratings related to if a laugh was primarily voiced or unvoiced and observed that
