## 7. Bibliographical References

Bagby, M., Parker, J. D. a., and Taylor, G. J. (1994a). The Twenty-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale-I. Item selection and cross-validation of the factor structure. *Journal of Psychosomatic research*, 38(1):23–32.

Bagby, R. M., Taylor, G. J., and Parkers, J. D. A. (1994b). The twenty-item Toronto Alexithymia scale-II. Convergent, discriminant and concurrent validity. *Journal of psychosomatic research*, 38(1):33–40.

Baker, R. and Hazan, V. (2011). DiapixUK: Task materials for the elicitation of multiple spontaneous speech dialogs. *Behavior Research Methods*, 43(3):761–770.

Bates, D., Mächler, M., Bolker, B., and Walker, S. (2015). Fitting Linear Mixed-Effects Models Using (lme4). *Journal of Statistical Software*, 67(1):1–48.

Belin, P., Fillion-Bilodeau, S., and Gosselin, F. (2008). The Montreal Affective Voices: A validated set of non-verbal affect bursts for research on auditory affective processing. *Behavior Research Methods*, 40(2):531–539.

Boersma, P. and Weenink, D. (2020). Praat: doing phonetics by computer.

Campbell, N. (2007). Changes in Voice Quality due to Social Conditions. *ICPhS XVI*, (August):2093–2096.

Cohn, J. F., Kruez, T. S., Matthews, I., Yang, Y., Nguyen, M. H., Padilla, M. T., Zhou, F., and De La Torre, F. (2009). Detecting depression from facial actions and vocal prosody. *Proceedings - 3rd International Conference on Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction and Workshops, ACII 2009*, (October).

Curran, W., McKeown, G. J., Rychlowska, M., André, E., Wagner, J., and Lingenfelser, F. (2018). Social context disambiguates the interpretation of laughter. *Frontiers in Psychology*, 8(JAN):1–12.

Dudzik, B., Jansen, M.-p., Burger, F., Kaptein, F., Broekens, J., Heylen, D. K. J., Hung, H., Neerincx, M., and Truong, K. P. (2019). Context for Emotion Perception in Audiovisual Databases for Automatic Affect Detection: A Survey. In *International Conference on Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction (ACII)*, page 8. IEEE.

Gervais, M. and Wilson, D. S. (2005). The Evolution and Functions of Laughter and Humor: A Synthetic Approach. *The Quarterly Review of Biology*, 80(4):241–277.

Goldberg, L. R., Johnson, J. A., Eber, H. W., Hogan, R., Ashton, M. C., Cloninger, C. R., and Gough, H. G. (2006). The international personality item pool and the future of public-domain personality measures. *Journal of Research in Personality*, 40(1):84–96.

Gosling, S. D., Rentfrow, P. J., and Swann, W. B. (2003). A very brief measure of the Big-Five personality domains. *Journal of Research in Personality*, 37(6):504–528.

Hough, J., Tian, Y., Ruiter, L. D., Betz, S., Kousidis, S., Schlangen, D., and Ginzburg, J. (2008). DUEL : A Multi-lingual Multimodal Dialogue Corpus for Disfluency, Exclamations and Laughter. pages 1784–1788.

Jansen, M. P. (2019). Communicative signals and social contextual factors in multimodal affect recognition. *ICMI 2019 - Proceedings of the 2019 International Conference on Multimodal Interaction*, pages 468–472.

Jonason, P. K., Teicher, E. A., and Schmitt, D. P. (2011). The TIPI’s validity confirmed: Associations with sociosexuality and self-esteem. *Individual Differences Research*, 9(1):52–60.

Kipper, S. and Todt, D. (2001). Variation of sound parameters affects the evaluation of human laughter. *Behaviour*, 138(9):1161–1178.

Kuznetsova, A., Brockhoff, P. B., and Christensen, R. H. B. (2017). Package: Tests in Linear Mixed Effects Models. *Journal of Statistical Software*, 82(13):1–26.

Lang, P., Bradley, M., and Cuthbert, B. (1997). International Affective Picture System (IAPS): Technical Manual and Affective Ratings.

Mccowan, I., Carletta, J., Kraaij, W., Ashby, S., Bourban, S., Flynn, M., Guillemot, M., Hain, T., Kadlec, J., Karaiskos, V., Lathoud, G., Lincoln, M., Lisowska, A., Post, W., Reidsma, D., and Wellner, P. (2005). The AMI Meeting Corpus. In *International Conference on Methods and Techniques in Behavioral Research.*, page 4.

McKeown, G. and Curran, W. (2015). The relationship between laughter intensity and perceived humour. In *Proceedings of the 4th Interdisciplinary Workshop on Laughter and Other Non-verbal Vocalisations in Speech*, number April, pages 27–30.

McKeown, G., Valstar, M., Cowie, R., Pantic, M., and Schröder, M. (2007). The SEMAINE database: Annotated multimodal records of emotionally colored conversations between a person and a limited agent. *IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing*, 6(1):1–14.

McKeown, G., Cowie, R., Curran, W., Ruch, W., and Douglas-Cowie, E. (2012). ILHAIRE laughter database. In *Proceedings of the LRECWorkshop on Corpora for Research on Emotion Sentiment and Social Signals*, number October.

Niewiadomski, R., Mancini, M., Baur, T., Varni, G., Griffin, H., and Aung, M. S. H. (2013). MMLI: Multimodal multiperson corpus of laughter in interaction. In *International Workshop on Human Behavior Understanding*, pages 184–195.

Owren, M. J. and Bachorowski, J.-A. (2003). Reconsidering the Evolution of Nonlinguistic Communication: The Case of Laughter. *Entomologia Experimentalis et Applicata*, 103(3):239–248.

Petridis, S. and Pantic, M. (2009). Is this joke really funny? Judging the mirth by audiovisual laughter analysis. *Proceedings - 2009 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo, ICME 2009*, pages 1444–1447.

Petridis, S., Martinez, B., and Pantic, M. (2013). The MAHNOB Laughter database. *Image and Vision Computing*, 31(2):186–202.

Romero, E., Villar, P., Gómez-Fraguela, J. A., and López-Romero, L. (2012). Measuring personality traits with ultra-short scales: A study of the Ten Item Personality Inventory (TIPI) in a Spanish sample. *Personality and Individual Differences*, 53(3):289–293.

Schuller, B., Müller, R., Eyben, F., Gast, J., Hörnler, B., Wöllmer, M., Rigoll, G., Höthker, A., and Konosu, H.
