by both participants. The post-experiment segmentation and synchronization of the data was done in several steps. First, audio- and video data were segmented by a research assistant using Adobe Premiere Pro, using hand-claps as a audiovisual marker for the start of tasks. This resulted in, after editing, 240 video clips (interlocutor A, interlocutor B and combined) and 152 audio clips (interlocutor A and interlocutor B). A log was kept for all the relative start- and end times of the video clips.

We then synced the video-, audio- and physiological data. A self-developed R code was deployed to find possible hand-clap signatures in the inertial movement data that was collected by the shimmers attached to the wrists of the participants. The resulting list of hand-clap signatures and the log with hand-clap interval timings where then used to manually identify and select the correct data points in the physiological signal. This method ensured synchronization with relatively high accuracy. The physiological data was further segmented in accordance with the audio-video segments. The shimmer devices we use are equipped with real time clock (RTC) stamps, therefore researchers interested in ECG- or GSR data will be able to use the already identified markers and synchronize these formats for their research purposes with relative ease.

### 3.6. Annotations

Several challenges in annotating laughter have been identified by the community. These challenges are partly the result of heterogeneous terminology used among laughter researchers with different backgrounds, and related to this, a lack of universally agreed upon definition of laughter that can be operationalized and applied by researchers interested in laughter as a social signal (Trouvain, 2003; Truong and Trouvain, 2012; Truong et al., 2019). This hampers the comparison of results and the development of theories on laughter and its expressive patterns.

[Figure: Praat annotation screenshot showing waveform, spectrogram, and annotation tiers; readable labels include “Laughter”, “bout”, and offset/inbreath labels.]

Figure 3: *Example of laughter annotations in Praat. The first tier represents an initial rough annotation imported from ELAN while the second tier shows a finer grained annotation of laughter bouts and offset respiratory activity.*

During the annotation of this data collection we use elements of a laughter annotation scheme which we recently introduced to make an effort towards a more universally and operationalized annotation of laughter (Truong et al., 2019). More specifically we use elements from the third tier of this annotation scheme. Laughter bouts and speech-laughs were annotated together with in- and out breaths that were linked to the bouts start (onset) or end (offset). Similar as in Truong et al. (2019) we define a laughter bout as a laugh-like syllable or a sequence of laugh-like syllables that are produced in one exhalation phase. A bout can be, and often is separated by an inbreath at the start or end of the laugh bout. Speech-laugh are defined as a stretch of articulated speech with laughter interspersed. Truong et al. (2019) also defines smiled speech in this tier, however due to the interests of the authors at the time, this is not annotated. We used the Praat software package (Boersma and Weenink, 2020) to annotate the audio data. Instances where the annotation scheme still could not fit the data were resolved through several discussions among the authors. Examples of laughter annotations can be seen in figure 3.

The ‘make the other laugh’ -task and the ‘joke telling’-tasks were annotated resulting in a total of 601 annotated laughter bouts, 168 annotated speech-laughs and 538 other on- or offset respiration events. For these annotated laugh events we extracted acoustic features commonly researched in relation to laughter, including duration, pitch and intensity features. Figure 4 gives a pairwise overview of the quantity and distribution of three important acoustic properties of laughter. Interestingly, this figure indicates diversity in how much and how laughter is produced within each conversation pair, which is in line with observations made by the experimenters. Some conversation pairs seem to produce much more or less laughter than others, while there also seems to be acoustic variability within pairs and differences between pairs.

As mentioned in the introduction, the annotated laughter segments in combination with the humour annotations from the participants can be used to study laughter in different settings. In the next section we will explore the relationship between perceived humour and the acoustic properties of laughter in two tasks, the more open and conversational ‘make the other laugh’-task and a more structured humour specific ‘joke telling’-task.

## 4. Preliminary analysis: The relationship between the acoustic properties of social laughter and humour perception

The relationship between perceived humour and acoustic properties of laughter has been researched before (Gervais and Wilson, 2005; McKeown and Curran, 2015). McKeown and Curran (2015) for example, explored the relationship between how intense participants perceived pre-selected laughter segments and how much these laughs were related to humour. Interestingly, they found a strong relationship between perceived humour and laughter intensity by these raters. in contrast to the data used by McKeown and Curran (2015), the MULAI database is more focused on laughter in a social setting and benefits from annotations from the participants in these settings.

The MULAI database thus equips us with data to further explore the work of McKeown and Curran (2015) from a different angle, by looking directly at certain acoustic properties of laughter that have been shown to influence the perception of laughter (Kipper and Todt, 2001) instead of relying on perceived laughter properties. It also takes humour annotations from annotators within the social context
