Dafna Shahaf, Eric Horvitz, and Robert Mankoff. 2015. Inside jokes: Identifying humorous cartoon captions. In *Proceedings of the 21st ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining*, pages 1065–1074.

SocialGrep. 2021. One million Reddit jokes [Dataset]. Hugging Face. https://huggingface.co/datasets/SocialGrep/one-million-reddit-jokes (accessed April 2025).

Jerry M. Suls. 1972. A two-stage model for the appreciation of jokes and cartoons: An information-processing analysis. In Jeffrey H. Goldstein and Paul E. McGhee, editors, *The psychology of humor: Theoretical perspectives and empirical issues*, volume 1, pages 81–100. Academic Press, New York.

Radiathun Tasnia, Nabila Ayman, Afrin Sultana, Abu N. Chy, and Masaki Aono. 2023. Exploiting stacked embeddings with LSTM for multilingual humor and irony detection. *Social Network Analysis and Mining*, 13(1):43.

Joe Toplyn. 2014. *Comedy Writing for Late-Night TV*. Twenty Lane Media.

Joe Toplyn. 2021. Witscript: A system for generating improvised jokes in a conversation. In *Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Computational Creativity*, pages 22–31, Mexico City, Mexico (Virtual). Association for Computational Creativity.

Joe Toplyn. 2023. Witscript 3: A hybrid AI system for improvising jokes in a conversation. *Preprint*, arXiv:2301.02695.

Joe Toplyn and Ori Amir. 2025. Can AI make us laugh? Comparing jokes generated by Witscript and a human expert. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 71–78, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Joe Toplyn and Ori Amir. 2026. JEST: A benchmark for rating the funniness of short texts. In *Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Computational Creativity*, Coimbra, Portugal. Association for Computational Creativity. In press.

Tony Veale. 2024. From symbolic caterpillars to stochastic butterflies: Case studies in re-implementing creative systems with LLMs. In *Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Computational Creativity (ICCC)*, Jönköping, Sweden. Association for Computational Creativity.
