John C Meyer. 2015. *Understanding humor through communication: Why be funny, anyway?* Lexington Books.

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. Making computers laugh: Investigations in automatic humor recognition. In *Proceedings of Human Language Technology Conference and Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 531–538, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

John Morreall. 1983. Humor and emotion. *American Philosophical Quarterly*, 20(3):297–304.

Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bernstein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In *Proceedings of the 36th annual acm symposium on user interface software and technology*, pages 1–22.

Sahithya Ravi, Patrick Huber, Akshat Shrivastava, Aditya Sagar, Ahmed Aly, Vered Shwartz, and Arash Einolghozati. 2024. Small but funny: A feedback-driven approach to humor distillation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.18113.*

Dmitry Scherbakov, Nina Hubig, Vinita Jansari, Alexander Bakumenko, and Leslie A Lenert. 2024. The emergence of large language models (llm) as a tool in literature reviews: an llm automated systematic review. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.04600.*

Leixian Shen, Haotian Li, Yun Wang, and Huamin Qu. 2024. From data to story: Towards automatic animated data video creation with llm-based multi-agent systems. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.03876.*

Oliviero Stock and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. HAHAcronym: A computational humor system. In *Proceedings of the ACL Interactive Poster and Demonstration Sessions*, pages 113–116, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Alexey Tikhonov and Pavel Shtykovskiy. 2024a. Humor mechanics: Advancing humor generation with multistep reasoning. *Preprint*, arXiv:2405.07280.

Alexey Tikhonov and Pavel Shtykovskiy. 2024b. Humor mechanics: Advancing humor generation with multistep reasoning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.07280.*

Jana Vizmuller. 1980. Psychological reasons for using humor in a pedagogical setting. *Canadian modern language review*, 36(2):266–271.

Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, et al. 2024. A survey on large language model based autonomous agents. *Frontiers of Computer Science*, 18(6):186345.

Shan Wang. 2024. Investigating the potential of large language models for automated writing scoring. In *2024 5th International Conference on Education, Knowledge and Information Management (ICEKIM 2024)*, pages 1091–1098. Atlantis Press.

Shih-Hung Wu, Yu-Feng Huang, and Tsz-Yeung Lau. 2024. Humour classification by fine-tuning llms: Cyut at clef 2024 joker lab subtask humour classification according to genre and technique. In *Working Notes of the Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum (CLEF 2024). CEUR Workshop Proceedings*, pages 1933–1947.

Changrong Xiao, Wenxing Ma, Sean Xin Xu, Kunpeng Zhang, Yufang Wang, and Qi Fu. 2024. From automation to augmentation: Large language models elevating essay scoring landscape. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.06431.*

An Yang, Baosong Yang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Chengpeng Li, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, et al. 2024. Qwen2 technical report. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10671.*

Diyi Yang, Alon Lavie, Chris Dyer, and Eduard Hovy. 2015. Humor recognition and humor anchor extraction. In *Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 2367–2376, Lisbon, Portugal. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Renxian Zhang and Naishi Liu. 2014. Recognizing humor on twitter. In *Proceedings of the 23rd ACM International Conference on Conference on Information and Knowledge Management*, CIKM ’14, page 889–898, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Shanshan Zhong, Zhongzhan Huang, Shanghua Gao, Wushao Wen, Liang Lin, Marinka Zitnik, and Pan Zhou. 2024. Let’s think outside the box: Exploring leap-of-thought in large language models with creative humor generation. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)*, pages 13246–13257.

Xuhui Zhou, Hao Zhu, Akhila Yerukola, Thomas Davidson, Jena D. Hwang, Swabha Swayamdipta, and Maarten Sap. 2023. COBRA frames: Contextual reasoning about effects and harms of offensive statements. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023*, pages 6294–6315, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

## A Generation of the data

In this appendix, we provide a detailed overview of the process for generating the initial samples. First, various types of humor type in the dataset are explained below:
