propriateness across contexts. Detailed descriptions of each type are in Appendix A.

| Model | GPT | Claude | Sum |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Offensive | 36 | 21 | 57 |
| Mildly inappropriate | 49 | 27 | 76 |
| Neutral | 36 | 48 | 84 |
| Wholesome | 27 | 60 | 87 |
| **Sum** | 148 | 156 | 304 |

Table 1: Sample counts by the model used and level of appropriateness.

**Short Explanation** offers a quick interpretation, outlining the joke or message.

### 3.2 Humorous content generation

Sentences along with their associated features were initially generated through LLM prompting, available in Appendix A. The prompt consists of instances of industrial settings along with a description of each feature. Additionally, several rules were established to ensure distinctiveness, diversity, and conciseness, and to prevent redundancy. Also, each prompt consists of a sequence of following prompts, which emphasize different aspects of the resource, including cultural, industrial, and appropriateness diversity. After the careful process of designing the prompts, Claude 3.5 Sonnet <sup>1</sup> and ChatGPT-4o <sup>2</sup> were used to generate the initial set of samples. This procedure resulted in 340 samples, 170 from each model. Two experienced annotators then reviewed the quality of generated samples and removed irrelevant, repetitive, or nonsensical ones. After this step, the size was reduced to 304.

### 3.3 Annotation

During sample generation, both LLMs were prompted to not only create but also label examples to ensure diversity by type, level, and features, though these initial labels were later discarded. Two male annotators independently assessed each sample for appropriateness, required knowledge, industry context, and humor type. For consistency, they standardized labels when samples described the same context differently. In cases of disagreement between annotators, a third male reviewer was consulted to resolve conflicts.

<sup>1</sup>https://www.anthropic.com/  
<sup>2</sup>https://chatgpt.com/

### 3.4 Description

The resource includes 304 samples, with 138 different industry-specific contexts. The overall distribution of appropriateness levels, humor types, and counts of each model is presented in Tables 1 and 3.

## 4 Experiments

**Data** Our experiments center around the professional, industry-specific dataset introduced in this work. For each experiment, we craft a prompt that includes a general dataset description, explanations of appropriateness levels, and details of the appropriateness classification task. This prompt is paired with a humorous sentence from the dataset and then given to the model. A complete version of the prompt is available in B.

**Model** In addition to Claude3.5 Sonnet and ChatGPT-4o, we evaluated three additional models, two of which are openly accessible: Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct (Meta et al., 2024), Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct (Yang et al., 2024), and Gemini 1.5 Flash<sup>3</sup>. Since the two first models were used in the initial data generation step, each was only tested on the subset they were not involved in generating. We set the temperature to zero in all experiments to ensure deterministic model responses. All responses were collected in November 2024.

## 5 Results

The results of our analysis in Table 2 reveal that both Claude3.5 Sonnet and ChatGPT-4o can determine the appropriateness level of the subset that they were not involved in the generation better than the rest of the models. Apart from the two mentioned models, Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct performs better than Qwen and Gemini. Furthermore, the average f1-score of models on the subset generated by GPT-4o is lower than that of the Claude subset, suggesting it contains more nuanced, context-specific humor that demands a deeper understanding of professional dynamics and workplace culture. The offensive category has low F1-scores in both subsets, indicating that models may overlook cultural or national references, revealing potential biases. For instance, *“In our Italian office, deadlines are merely suggestions – like the speed limit on a Sicilian road”* is offensive toward Italian culture, yet Qwen and Llama classify it as Neutral. The

<sup>3</sup>https://gemini.google.com/
