Additionally, our classification of humor types has some limitations and could be expanded to capture more nuances. For instance, we grouped samples that could be classified as sarcasm under the broader category of irony. This was done to maintain a minimal set of types, as some categories, such as sarcasm, had limited samples in the initial dataset.

Lastly, as both annotators are male we removed all samples containing gender references to avoid bias.

## 8 Ethical Considerations

To streamline dataset compilation, we used LLMs to generate potential humorous examples. While this significantly enhanced efficiency, it may also introduce biases. The humor generated by LLMs could differ from what human experts might select, potentially reflecting biases inherent in the model or prompt design.

The annotation process was carried out by two experienced annotators with industry experience. However, since both annotators are male, there is potential for bias, despite our efforts to eliminate gender references in order to minimize this effect.

## References

John A Banas, Norah Dunbar, Dariela Rodriguez, and Shr-Jie Liu. 2011. A review of humor in educational settings: Four decades of research. *Communication Education*, 60(1):115–144.

Adrian Bardon. 2005. The philosophy of humor. *Comedy: A geographic and historical guide*, 2:462–476.

Ronald A Berk. 2015. The greatest veneration: Humor as a coping strategy for the challenges of aging. *Social Work in Mental Health*, 13(1):30–47.

Kim Binsted and Graeme Ritchie. 1994. An implemented model of punning riddles. *Preprint*, arXiv:cmp-lg/9406022.

Yang Chen, Chong Yang, Tu Hu, Xinhao Chen, Man Lan, Li Cai, Xinlin Zhuang, Xuan Lin, Xin Lu, and Aimin Zhou. 2024. Are U a joke master? pun generation via multi-stage curriculum learning towards a humor LLM. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024*, pages 878–890, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Rose Laub Coser. 1959. Some social functions of laughter: A study of humor in a hospital setting. *Human relations*, 12(2):171–182.

Pawel Dybala, Michal Ptaszynski, Jacek Maciejewski, Mizuki Takahashi, Rafal Rzepka, and Kenji Araki. 2010. Multiagent system for joke generation: Humor and emotions combined in human-agent conversation. *J. Ambient Intell. Smart Environ.*, 2(1):31–48.

Julen Etxaniz, Gorka Azkune, Aitor Soroa, Oier Lopez de Lacalle, and Mikel Artetxe. 2024. BertaQA: How much do language models know about local culture? In *The Thirty-eight Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track.*

Paweł Gryka, Kacper Gradoń, Marek Kozłowski, Miłosz Kutyła, and Artur Janicki. 2024. Detection of ai-generated emails-a case study. In *Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security*, pages 1–8.

William P Hampes. 1992. Relation between intimacy and humor. *Psychological reports*, 71(1):127–130.

Bryan Anthony Hong and Ethel Ong. 2008. Generating punning riddles from examples. In *2008 Second International Symposium on Universal Communication*, pages 347–352.

Ayesha Idrees, Saira Batool, and Rukhsana Kausar. 2020. Styles of humor and interpersonal relationships in university students. *FWU Journal of Social Sciences*, 14(4):57–67.

Tonglin Jiang, Hao Li, and Yubo Hou. 2019. Cultural differences in humor perception, usage, and implications. *Frontiers in psychology*, 10:123.

Marina Jovic and Salaheddine Mnasri. 2024. Evaluating ai-generated emails: A comparative efficiency analysis. *World Journal of English Language*, 14(2).

Zhuoran Lu, Sheshera Mysore, Tara Safavi, Jennifer Neville, Longqi Yang, and Mengting Wan. 2024. Corporate communication companion (ccc): An llm-empowered writing assistant for workplace social media. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.04656.*

Owen H Lynch. 2002. Humorous communication: Finding a place for humor in communication research. *Communication theory*, 12(4):423–445.

Jessica Mesmer-Magnus, David J Glew, and Chockalingam Viswesvaran. 2012. A meta-analysis of positive humor in the workplace. *Journal of Managerial Psychology*, 27(2):155–190.

AI Meta, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, et al. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783*, 2.

John C Meyer. 2000. Humor as a double-edged sword: Four functions of humor in communication. *Communication theory*, 10(3):310–331.
