<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th rowspan="2">Data Split</th>
<th colspan="3">Examples</th>
<th colspan="3">Test Data</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>hom</th>
<th>het</th>
<th>non</th>
<th>hom</th>
<th>het</th>
<th>non</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Hom-Dataset</td>
<td>10</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>10</td>
<td>810</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>633</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Het-Dataset</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>10</td>
<td>10</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>647</td>
<td>499</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 1: Dataset statistics. We use "hom", "het", and "non" to represent hom-puns, het-puns, and non-puns.

### 4.3 Dataset Construction

The dataset used in our evaluations integrates the Semeval-2017-Task-7 dataset (Miller et al., 2017) with the ExPun dataset (Sun et al., 2022a). The former is a widely used open-source pun dataset, while the latter augments the former with detailed crowdsourced annotations. Since these two datasets are not perfectly aligned and some data in ExPun lack explanations for puns, we conduct a review and filtered out some of the data. Through this process, we ensure that each pun entry includes the pun text, pun pair, human explanation, and keyword set, whereas each non-pun entry contains only non-pun text.[^2] The keyword set here serves as the contextual words $C_w$ for generating puns since it usually provides a proper context without hindering the model’s generation. We divide the entire dataset into two parts: the hom-dataset and the het-dataset, and select a small number of samples as the demonstration examples in prompts, as shown in Table 1.

### 4.4 Model Selection

To assess the pun understanding level of LLMs with varying parameter sizes and capabilities, we selected eight well-known LLMs from two categories for our experiments. The first category includes open-source 7B models, such as Llama2-7B-Chat (Touvron et al., 2023), Mistral-7B (Jiang et al., 2023), Vicuna-7B (Zheng et al., 2024), and OpenChat-7B (Wang et al., 2024). The second category consists of closed-source models with larger parameter scales, like Gemini-Pro (Google, 2023), GPT-3.5-Turbo (OpenAI, 2023a), Claude-3-Opus (Anthropic, 2024) and GPT-4-Turbo (OpenAI, 2023b). All of them are generative text models endowing with in-context learning and instruction-following abilities.

### 4.5 Evaluation Metrics

**Metrics for Recognition** We measure the accuracy and confidence of LLMs on pun recognition through the following three indicators. *1) True Positive Rate (TPR)* (Yerushalmy, 1947) indicates the ratio of puns correctly identified. *2) True Negative Rate (TNR)* is the ratio of non-puns accurately recognized. *3) Cohen’s Kappa ($\kappa$)* (Cohen, 1960) measures the agreement between two sets of biased recognitions. Moreover, we compute the variations ($\Delta$) in TPR and TNR when the prompt leans towards non-pun compared to pun, as they reflect the model’s inconsistency intuitively.

**Metrics for Explanation** Considering the labor-intensive and time-consuming nature of manually evaluating pun explanation, we combine manual assessment with automatic evaluation according to the following two methods. *1)* A small-scale, fine-grained *punchline check*: We randomly select 100 hom-puns and 100 het-puns and employ three annotators to assess the quality of their explanations.[^3] For each sample, we ask annotators to check whether elements of the pun pair $P_p =< w_p, w_a, S_p, S_a >$ are correctly mentioned in the explanation. Their annotations demonstrate a high level of agreement (with Fleiss’s $\kappa$ = 0.87), highlighting the reliability of this method. In cases of disagreement, we adopt the majority view. Then, we compute the average mentioned ratio (denoted as **Average Mention Ratio**) of $w_p$, $w_a$, $S_p$, and $S_a$ as indicators. *2)* A large-scale coarse-grained *pairwise comparison*: We instruct GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023c) to choose the winner between the human explanation and the model explanation (allowing for a tie), and then calculate the **Win Rate**, **Tie Rate**, and **Loss Rate** of each LLM. This kind of approach is widely used for evaluation (Li et al., 2024; Yuan et al., 2024; Qin et al., 2024). It is worth noting that GPT-4 achieves a high level of consistency with our annotators, showing an accuracy of 88.3% on the sampled data.

**Metrics for Generation** The metrics used for pun generation in our study consist of two main dimensions: *1)* automatic indicators, which are primarily based on word probability modeling, like **Ambiguity (A)**, **Distinctiveness (D)** (Kao et al., 2016), and **Surprise (S)** (He et al., 2019).[^4] We

[^2]: We selected the longest explanation and the most extensive set of keywords in ExPun, expecting them to be more informative.

[^3]: More information about our annotators can be found in Appendix A.

[^4]: The formula for calculating these metrics and the details of their implementation are available at Appendix C.
