## A Crowd-sourcing

We have recruited a team of three undergraduates who majored in English. They are very familiar with puns and are specifically trained for our evaluation work. We pay each of them $9/h, exceeding the local minimum wage. The screenshots of the instructions and annotation interface are shown in Figure 6, 7, 8.

## B Details of Prompts

### B.1 Prompt for Pun Recognition and Explanation

When recognizing different types of puns, we will provide accordingly 6 examples. The explanations used in experiments are collected from enhanced prompts for best performance. We set the temperature parameter to 0 to minimize the impact of the model’s inherent randomness on recognition and explanation tasks.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Pun Recognition and Explanation</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
<em>/* Definition */</em><br>
Puns are a form of wordplay exploiting different meanings of a word or similar-sounding words, while non-puns are jokes or statements that don’t rely on such linguistic ambiguities.<br><br>

<em>/* Instruction */</em><br>
Determine whether the given Text is a <strong>pun/non-pun</strong>. <span style="color:red">Give your reasons first, then make your final decision clearly.</span> You should either say "The given text is a pun" or say "The given text is a non-pun". You must output the current status in a parsable JSON format. An example output looks like {"Reason": "XXX", "Choice": "The given text is a XXX"}<br><br>

<em>/* 6 Examples */</em><br>
Text: Driving on so many turnpikes was taking its toll.<br>
Output:{"Reason": <span style="color:red">"The text is using the word ’toll’ in a double entendre. It refers both to the physical tolls paid on turnpikes and to ’taking its toll’ as in having a negative effect or cost."</span>, "Choice": "The Given test is a pun."}<br>
Text: Nothing ventured, nothing gained.<br>
Output:{"Reason": <span style="color:red">"The given text is a proverb that expresses a general truth or piece of advice and does not exploit different meanings of a word or similar-sounding words.,</span> "Choice": "The given text is a non-pun."}<br>
......<br><br>

<em>/* Test Data /</em><br>
Text: I wanted to have dinner at a native American-themed restaurant, but I didn’t have reservations.<br>
Output:
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 6: Prompt for pun recognition and explanation. <span style="color:red">Red Text</span> denotes the Chain of Thought (CoT) module. We will select a single bias indicated by **bold text** at a time.

### B.2 Prompt for Pun Generation

In pun generation tasks, we will provide 3 examples in the prompt and test the effect of contextual words on the final generation’s quality. Here, the temperature parameter is set to 0.7, which strikes a balance between stimulating the model’s creativity and preventing it from going off the rails.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Pun Generation</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
<em>/* Definition */</em><br>
Puns are a form of wordplay exploiting different meanings of a word or similar-sounding words, while non-puns are jokes or statements that don’t rely on such linguistic ambiguities.<br><br>

<em>/* Instruction */</em><br>
Below is a keyword, two of its meanings and <span style="color:red">a set of contextual words</span>. Please generate a pun sentence with a punchline on the keyword that conveys both given meanings simultaneously and using all the contextual words. Except for the keyword, the pun sentence must not utilize any words from either of the two meanings. Besides, once a keyword is used, it’s strictly prohibited to use it again in the latter half of the sentence. You must output the current status in a parsable JSON format. An example output looks like: {"Sentence": "XXX"}<br><br>

<em>/* 3 Examples */</em><br>
Keyword: toll<br>
Meaning 1: toll &lt;a fee levied for the use of roads or bridges (used for maintenance)&gt;<br>
Meaning 2: toll &lt;value measured by what must be given or done or undergone to obtain something&gt;<br>
<span style="color:red">Contextual Words: Driving, many, turnpikes, taking its toll</span><br>
Output:<br>
{"Sentence": "{\"Driving on so many turnpikes was taking its toll.\"}"}<br>
......<br><br>

<em>/* Test Data */</em><br>
Keyword: bore<br>
Meaning 1: &lt;Make a hole, especially with a pointed power or hand tool&gt;<br>
Meaning 2: &lt;A carpenter sat on his drill and was bored to tears.&gt;<br>
<span style="color:red">Contextual Words: carpenter, sat, drill, bored to tears</span><br>
Output:
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 7: Prompt for pun generation. <span style="color:red">Red texts</span> denotes the addition of contextual words.

### B.3 Prompt for Non-pun Generation

We use GPT3.5-Turbo to generate non-puns as lower-bound references for the evaluation metric. This task is relatively simple so we don’t provide examples. The prompt is presented in Table 8.

### B.4 Prompt for Pairwise Comparison

During the preliminary experiments of pairwise comparison, we provide GPT-4 with three examples for reference. However, we later noticed that the model’s performance is similar with both 0-shot
