and 3-shot settings. Considering that not providing examples could significantly save on token usage, we ultimately opt for the 0-shot approach. The prompt is placed in Table 9.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Non-pun Generation</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
<em>/* Definition */</em><br>
Puns are a form of wordplay exploiting different meanings of a word or similar-sounding words, while non-puns are jokes or statements that don’t rely on such linguistic ambiguities.<br><br>
<em>/* Instruction */</em><br>
Below is a keyword and one of its meanings. Please generate a non-pun sentence with the keyword that conveys the given meaning. You must output the current status in a parsable JSON format. An example output looks like: {"Sentence": "XXX"}<br><br>
<em>/* Test Data */</em><br>
Keyword: thick<br>
Meaning: &lt;having a short and solid form or stature&gt;<br>
Output:
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 8: Prompt for non-pun generation.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Pairwise Comparison</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
<em>/* Definition */</em><br>
Puns are a form of wordplay exploiting different meanings of a word or similar-sounding words.<br><br>
<em>/* Instruction */</em><br>
Below is a pun text, gold meanings of pun, and two corresponding explanations. Please carefully judge which explanation is of better quality. A good explanation should point out the correct pun word and analyze the multiple meanings of the pun or similar-sounding words in detail appropriately while avoiding unnecessary or incorrect interpretations. You must choose from one of the three answers: "Explanation 1 is much better", "Explanation 2 is much better", "I’m not sure which would be better.". You must output the current status in a parsable JSON format. An example output looks like: {"Choice": "XXX"}<br><br>
<em>/* Text Data */</em><br>
Pun Text: Have another soft drink, Tom coaxed.<br>
Gold Meanings of Pun:<br>
1. coax &lt; influence or urge by gentle urging, caressing, or flattering &gt;<br>
2. coke &lt; Coca Cola is a trademarked cola &gt;<br>
Explanation 1: This is a pun on how "coaxed" sounds like "Coke" which is a brand of soft drink.<br>
Explanation 2: The text plays on the double meaning of the word ’coaxed’. "Coaxed" can mean persuading someone to do something, but it can also refer to mixing or stirring a drink. This creates a humorous double meaning.<br>
Output:
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 9: Prompt for pairwise comparison.

### B.5 Prompt for Finding Synonyms

For assessing ambiguity, distinctiveness, surprise, and unusualness, synonyms play a crucial role in the calculations, as detailed in Appendix C.2. So we design a prompt to find synonyms for both the pun words and alternative words in hom-puns. We use GPT-4 to complete this work.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Finding Synonyms</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
<em>/* Instruction */</em><br>
Below is a pun text, one keyword, and its two meanings. The keyword is the pun in the text, which can be interpreted in two meanings. Please find two different synonyms for the keyword, each corresponding to one of the meanings. The synonyms should be able to replace the keyword in the text seamlessly to remove ambiguity, while ideally being a simple word. You must output the current status in a parsable JSON format. An example output looks like: {’Synonym 1 for Meaning 1’: ’XXX’, ’Synonym 2 for Meaning 2’: ’XXX’}<br><br>
<em>/* 6 Examples */</em><br>
Text: Driving on so many turnpikes was taking its toll.<br>
Keyword: toll<br>
Meaning 1: &lt; a fee levied for the use of roads or bridges (used for maintenance) &gt;<br>
Meaning 2: &lt; value measured by what must be given or done or undergone to obtain something &gt;<br>
Output:<br>
{"Synonym 1 for Meaning 1": "fee", "Synonym 2 for Meaning 2": "impact"}<br>
......<br><br>
<em>/* Test Data */</em><br>
Text: A boy told his parents he wanted to raise goats for a living, but he was only kidding.<br>
Keyword: kid<br>
Meaning 1: &lt; tell false information to for fun &gt;<br>
Meaning 2: &lt; young goat &gt;<br>
Output:
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 10: Prompt for finding synonyms.

## C Details of A, D, S, and U Metrics

### C.1 Formulas

**Ambiguity & Distinctiveness (Kao et al., 2016)**

Ambiguity measures the extent to which the sentence supports both pun sense and alternative sense. It’s quantified by the entropy of $P(m|w)$, where $m$ is either the pun word $w_p$ or the alternative word $w_a$.

$$
P(m|w) = \sum_{\mathbf{f}} \left( P(m)P(\mathbf{f}) \prod_i P(w_i|m, f_i) \right)
$$

Distinctiveness is indicative of how distinctive the meanings $m1$ ($w_p$) and $m2$ ($w_a$) are, based on the supporting subsets of words in the sentence and it’s calculated by KL divergence.

$$
D_{KL}(F1||F2) + D_{KL}(F2||F1)
$$

Variables:
