## E Case Study of LLM-Generated Explanations

### E.1 Text Structure

When interpreting puns, LLMs typically start by identifying the $w_p$ and $w_a$ and then analyze the dual meanings in the surrounding context. This clear main-and-subordinate structure is not very common in human explanations, which makes them less intuitive than those by models, as shown in Table 12.

<table>
<tr><th>Pun Explanation Samples</th></tr>
<tr><td>
<em>/* Pun Text */</em><br>
Actors are cast through their good and bad stages.<br><br>

<em>/* Human Explanation */</em><br>
This sentence is a pun. It’s saying that actors are cast through good and bad acting. The word used is stages instead of acting. A stage is a raised platform that actors act on.<br><br>

<em>/* LLM Explanation */</em><br>
The text plays on the <u>double meaning of the word ’stages’</u>. It refers to both the phases of an actor’s career (good and bad times) and the physical stages (platforms) in theaters where actors perform.
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<em>/* Pun Text */</em><br>
Is that a pure rump roast? Nothing butt.<br><br>

<em>/* Human Explanation */</em><br>
This is a joke on the fact that rump roasts come from the butt of the animal, and the speaker answering the question here is confirming that the product is nothing but pure rump roast roast.<br><br>

<em>/* LLM Explanation */</em><br>
The text plays on the <u>homophones ’butt’ and ’but’</u>, using ’butt’ in the context of a rump roast (which refers to the rear or buttocks of the animal) and ’but’ as a conjunction typically used to introduce a phrase or clause contrasting with what has already been mentioned. This creates a humorous double meaning.
</td></tr>
</table>

Table 12: Comparison between human pun explanations and LLM-generated pun explanations. We <u>underline</u> the segments that explicitly point out the $w_p$ and $w_a$.

### E.2 Error Types

In our analysis, we’ve identified recurring error patterns in the output of LLMs and will examine these trends in the forthcoming case studies. All results below are acquired from GPT-3.5’s result, which we find struck a balance between generation quality and noticeability of erroneous patterns.

**Misclassify Pun as Non-pun** For certain common puns, LLM tends to classify them as proverbs instead of puns. This shows LLM’s comprehension of puns is superimposed by its understanding of certain common expressions. An example can be found in Table 13.

<table>
<tr><th>Misclassify Pun as Non-pun</th></tr>
<tr><td>
<em>/* Pun Text */</em><br>
He who lends to the poor gets interest from god.<br><br>

<em>/* Right explanation of Human */</em><br>
This is a pun about earning interest, as in interest rates on money and fascination, from god. Helping a poor person is considered a good gesture in the eyes of religion.<br><br>

<em>/* Wrong Explanation of LLM */</em><br>
The text is a proverb conveying a moral lesson and does not exploit different meanings of a word or similar-sounding words for humorous effect.
</td></tr>
</table>

Table 13: LLM misclassifies pun as non-pun in explanation.

**Incorrect Pun Word Identification** For certain het-puns, LLM can’t correctly identify the pun word because the relationship between the pun word and alternative words is a bit far. Like in this example (Table 14), we need to associate "slow" with "sloe" using phonetic similarity and then associate "sloe" with "blackthorn" by semantic similarity. These types of puns are challenging for current LLMs.

<table>
<tr><th>Incorrect Pun Word Identification</th></tr>
<tr><td>
<em>/* Pun Text */</em><br>
’This looks like the fruit of the blackthorn’, said Tom slowly.<br><br>

<em>/* Right explanation of Human */</em><br>
This is a play on words. The word "slowly" means at a slow speed but a "sloe" is the fruit of a blackthorn..<br><br>

<em>/* Wrong Explanation of LLM */</em><br>
The text plays on the double meaning of ’blackthorn’, which refers to both the fruit of the blackthorn plant and the color black. This creates a humorous double meaning.
</td></tr>
</table>

Table 14: LLM incorrectly pinpoints pun word in explanation.

**Incorrect Alternative Word Identification** In some het puns, LLM’s explanation shows a strange pattern: it can’t identify the correct alternative word, but it can give out the right alternative meaning. Like in this example (Table 15), it doesn’t pinpoint the pun word: "canvass" but the explanation includes its meaning: "the act of going door-to-door to promote a product or service". For these cases, we think LLM truly understands both meanings of the sentence. However, its inability to wield phonetic similarity leads the failure in alternative word identification.
