## Limitations

Although we utilize the most widely used pun dataset currently available to evaluate the pun-understanding ability of LLMs, our pun texts are all in English. The ability of LLMs to understand puns can vary across different languages, and puns in languages other than English may have different definitions, structures, or purposes. Such a limitation highlights the potential for future work to generalize to puns in other languages.

In addition, given that LLMs have massive training data, most of which are not publicly available, it is possible that LLMs just copy puns that are not present in our dataset. Thus, our *Overlap* metric is not a precise measurement but only roughly indicates the extent of LLMs’ plagiarism when generating puns. Since exploring originality is intriguing, we eagerly hope for future work to develop more accurate indicators.

Another limitation of our work stems from potential biases in the evaluation process. Evaluating the quality of a pun explanation and the success of a generated pun involves human annotator judgments. Preferences vary among individuals: some may prefer detailed explanations, while others might seek clarity and brevity. Moreover, a pun that amuses one person may offend another. Future studies can consider designing more appropriate evaluation metrics.

## Ethics Statement

We acknowledge that all authors are informed about and adhere to the ACL Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct.

**Use of Human Annotations** Our institution recruited annotators to implement the annotations of pun evaluation. We ensure the privacy rights of the annotators are respected during the annotation process. The annotators receive compensation exceeding the local minimum wage and have consented to the use of pun data generated by them for research purposes. Appendix A provides further details on the annotations.

**Risks** The pun datasets in our experiment are sourced from publicly available sources. However, we cannot guarantee that they are devoid of socially harmful or toxic language. Furthermore, evaluating the data quality of pun explanation and generation is based on common sense, which can vary among individuals from diverse backgrounds. We use ChatGPT to correct grammatical errors in this paper.

## Acknowledgement

We thank the anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments and suggestions. This work is supported by the Chinese NSF Major Research Plan (No.92270121).

## References

Anthropic. 2024. The claude 3 model family: Opus, sonnet, haiku.

Salvatore Attardo. 2009. *Linguistic theories of humor*, chapter 3. Walter de Gruyter.

Salvatore Attardo. 2018. Universals in puns and humorous wordplay. *Cultures and traditions of wordplay and wordplay research*, pages 89–110.

Alexander Baranov, Vladimir Kniazhevsky, and Pavel Braslavski. 2023. You told me that joke twice: A systematic investigation of transferability and robustness of humor detection models. In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 13701–13715, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Minje Choi, Jiaxin Pei, Sagar Kumar, Chang Shu, and David Jurgens. 2023. Do LLMs understand social knowledge? evaluating the sociability of large language models with SocKET benchmark. In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 11370–11403, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jacob Cohen. 1960. A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales. *Educational and psychological measurement*, 20(1):37–46.

Yufeng Diao, Hongfei Lin, Di Wu, Liang Yang, Kan Xu, Zhihao Yang, Jian Wang, Shaowu Zhang, Bo Xu, and Dongyu Zhang. 2018. WECA: A WordNet-encoded collocation-attention network for homographic pun recognition. In *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 2507–2516, Brussels, Belgium. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Samuel Doogan, Aniruddha Ghosh, Hanyang Chen, and Tony Veale. 2017. Idiom savant at Semeval-2017 task 7: Detection and interpretation of English puns. In *Proceedings of the 11th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2017)*, pages 103–108, Vancouver, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Marta Dynel. 2009. Beyond a joke: Types of conversational humour. *Language and linguistics compass*, 3(5):1284–1299.
