fore, in this paper, we aim to systematically evaluate the capabilities of LLMs on pun understanding. As illustrated in Figure 1, to provide comprehensive assessments, we focus on three tasks from previous work, *i.e.*, pun recognition, pun explanation, and pun generation. To adapt these tasks to the in-context learning (ICL) paradigm of LLMs, we develop some new methods and metrics to ensure rigorous evaluation. For pun recognition, we create dual-biased prompts to gauge the confidence level of LLMs’ responses. These prompts explicitly incorporate the terms "pun" or "non-pun" to interfere with the model’s judgment. For pun explanation, we employ both a fine-grained punchline check and a coarse-grained pairwise comparison. These methods help identify LLMs’ shortcomings and assess the overall quality of LLMs’ explanations. For pun generation, we introduce two novel settings, *i.e.* free and constrained generation, which demonstrate the LLMs’ ability to create puns under varying conditions. Moreover, we introduce an *Overlap* metric to measure the originality of the puns generated by LLMs.

Our research has demonstrated that most LLMs are easily influenced by prompt bias in recognizing puns. They also struggle to explain puns which are based on phonetic similarities. In addition, we observe that LLMs often resort to a low-quality and incorrect pattern in pun generation, separating the double meanings instead of combining them. We term this pattern as "lazy pun generation". Despite all these issues, some powerful LLMs still exhibit impressive performance across the three tasks. Specifically, LLMs are competitive with humans in pun explanation and surpass the state-of-the-art models in pun generation. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:

- To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first to systematically evaluate LLMs’ capabilities of pun understanding.

- We propose several novel evaluation methods and metrics, including dual-biased prompted asking, punchline check, and overlap indicator for assessing the originality of pun generation. Compared to previous work, our evaluation methods and metrics better adapt to the ICL paradigm of LLMs.

- Through extensive experiments with various LLMs under different pun settings, we provide a detailed and in-depth analysis of the results. Our findings highlight the primary difficulties LLMs face in pun understanding and offer insights that could benefit future research in this area.

## 2 Related Work

**Studies on Puns** Puns, recognized as a significant linguistic art form, have garnered attention in AI research (Xiu et al., 2017; Doogan et al., 2017; Yu et al., 2018),. Previous work mainly collects various types of puns (Miller et al., 2017) from literature and the Internet and proposes diverse tasks to evaluate the pun understanding capabilities of LMs. These tasks can be divided into three categories: *1) pun recognition* (Diao et al., 2018; Zou and Lu, 2019; Zhou et al., 2020), which involves the detection of puns and localization of pun words. *2) pun explanation* (Sun et al., 2022a), which clarifies why the puns are funny by natural language explanations. *3) pun generation*, which mainly requests small LMs to either rewrite retrieved sentences into puns (He et al., 2019; Yu et al., 2020) or create puns more flexibly using acquired context words (Mittal et al., 2022; Tian et al., 2022; Sun et al., 2022b). For evaluation metrics, some work analyses pun from multiple quantifiable dimensions like ambiguity and distinctiveness (Kao et al., 2016), as well as surprise and unusualness (He et al., 2019). However, these studies mostly focus on training small models in pun tasks. Our research is the first to systematically evaluate the capabilities of LLMs to recognize, explain, and generate puns.

**LLMs for Humors** With vastly improved understanding and creativity, LLMs not only excel in traditional humor tasks such as detection and rating (Gupta et al., 2021; Baranov et al., 2023; Choi et al., 2023) but also demonstrate exciting potential in humor explanation and generation (Jentzsch and Kersting, 2023; Zhong et al., 2023). Some works aid LLMs in joke generation with humor algorithms (Toplyn, 2023) or feedback-driven techniques (Ravi et al., 2024), while others focus on comprehending and explaining punchlines in images (Hessel et al., 2023) or videos (Ko et al., 2023). Our work is the first to focus on pun understanding, a vital part of the humor.

## 3 Preliminaries

In this paper, we focus on two primary types of puns: *homographic pun* (hom-pun) and *heterographic pun* (het-pun) (Miller et al., 2017).
