- $m$: Pun word or alternative word.

- $\mathbf{w}$: Context.

- $\mathbf{f}$: Indicate whether a certain word is related to the topic.

- $F1$, $F2$: Distributions of focus sets given sentence topics $m1$ and $m2$, respectively.

- $D_{KL}$: Symmetrized Kullback-Leibler divergence score representing the distinctiveness between $F1$ and $F2$.

**Surprise & Unusualness (He et al., 2019)** Surprise in puns arises from the unexpected presence of the pun word over an anticipated one within a sentence, generating humor. It’s quantified by $S_{ratio}$.

$$
S(c) = -\log \left( \frac{p(w_p|c)}{p(w_a|c)} \right)
$$

$$
S_{\text{local}} = S(x_{p-d:p-1}, x_{p+1:p+d}),
$$

$$
S_{\text{global}} = S(x_{1:p-1}, x_{p+1:n}),
$$

$$
S_{\text{ratio}} =
\begin{cases}
-1, & \text{if } S_{\text{local}} < 0 \text{ or } S_{\text{global}} < 0, \\
\frac{S_{\text{local}}}{S_{\text{global}}}, & \text{otherwise.}
\end{cases}
$$

Unusualness attends to the pun’s anomalous nature, and it’s quantified by:

$$
\text{Unusualness} \overset{\text{def}}{=} -\frac{1}{n} \log \left( \frac{p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)}{\prod_{i=1}^{n} p(x_i)} \right)
$$

Variables are as follows:

- $w_p$: Pun word.

- $w_a$: Expected alternative word.

- $c$: Context.

- $S_{\text{local}}$: Local surprisal.

- $S_{\text{global}}$: Global surprisal.

### C.2 Implementation

Similar to previous papers, we apply a SkipGram model (Mikolov et al., 2013) to evaluate Ambiguity and Distinctiveness, and use an LM pre-trained on WikiText (Merity et al., 2016) to evaluate Surprise. Given that these models had limited vocabularies, we only calculated metrics for generations with words within the model’s lexicon. Additionally, we

| Prompt Type | TPR | $\Delta_{\mathrm{TPR}}$ | TNR | $\Delta_{\mathrm{TNR}}$ | $\kappa$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| *GPT-3.5-Turbo* |  |  |  |  |  |
| Basic | **0.990** | -0.137 | 0.224 | +0.510 | 0.291 |
| Basic+D | 0.974 | -0.137 | <u>0.488</u> | +0.360 | 0.511 |
| Basic+E | 0.984 | **-0.012** | 0.469 | **+0.134** | **0.817** |
| Basic+D+E | 0.974 | <u>-0.036</u> | **0.611** | <u>+0.137</u> | <u>0.811</u> |
| *GPT-4-Turbo* |  |  |  |  |  |
| Basic | **0.988** | <u>-0.003</u> | 0.630 | +0.054 | 0.894 |
| Basic+D | 0.972 | +0.004 | **0.840** | **-0.003** | 0.949 |
| Basic+E | 0.986 | **-0.001** | 0.698 | **+0.003** | <u>0.952</u> |
| Basic+D+E | **0.988** | **-0.001** | <u>0.758</u> | <u>+0.010</u> | **0.962** |

Table 11: Results of ablation study for prompt modules in homographic pun recognition. We use "D" and "E" to represent Definition and Example separately. The best results (smallest variations) are **bolded**, and the second-best results are <u>underlined</u>.

exclude the top 2% of extreme values in S calculations to prevent distortion of results due to near-zero denominators.

These metrics based on word probability modeling require the pun words and alternative words to differ, which is not a problem for het-puns but poses a challenge for hom-puns. To address this issue, we adopt the idea of Tian et al. (2022). This involves finding synonyms for both $w_p$ and $w_a$ according to the double meanings in hom-puns and then using these synonyms as substitutes for calculating the metrics. The prompt for synonym generation can be referenced in Table 10.

## D Ablation Study for Prompt Modules in Pun Recognition

In addition to the basic and enhanced prompts, we also design two semi-enhanced prompts: basic+definition and basic+examples. We conduct experiments on GPT-3.5-Turbo and GPT-4-Turbo to verify the effect of different prompt modules on pun recognition. Since the results for hom-pun and het-pun are similar, we only include the hom-pun results in Table 11. From this table, we can learn that both pun definition and ICL examples aid in recognizing puns. However, for GPT-4-Turbo, providing only the pun definition improves TNR more effectively than giving both. It seems that GPT-4-Turbo, as a top-tier LLM, can sufficiently learn and distinguish between puns and non-puns from definitions alone, while additional examples may interfere with its judgment.
