- **Hom-Pun:** Hom-puns play on the dual meaning of homographs (Attardo, 2009), referring to the words that have different meanings but share the same spelling. For example, the hom-pun “<u>*Pick (Pick)*</u> *your friends, but not to pieces*” utilizes the dual entendre of the word “*pick*”. The first part “*Pick your friends*” suggests choosing or selecting friends. However, combined with the second part “*but not to pieces*”, it evokes the phrase “*pick someone to pieces*”, meaning to criticize or find fault with someone. This pun leads to an unexpected twist and creates humor.
- **Het-Pun:** Het-puns leverage the double meaning of paronyms or homophones (Attardo, 2009), both of which are similar-sounding words but with different meanings. Take the het-pun “*Life is a puzzle, look here for the missing* <u>*peace (piece)*</u>” as an example. The word “*peace*” typically refers to tranquility or serenity in life. Meanwhile, it can be easily recognized as the homophone “*piece*”, as in a puzzle piece. This play on “*peace*” and “*piece*” delivers a humorous dual entendre.

In the above two examples, the underlined parts represent the pun-alternative word pair (He et al., 2019), with the alternative word in (parentheses). For hom-puns, the pun word $w_p$ and the alternative word $w_a$ are identical. For het-puns, these two words have a similar pronunciation, but only the former appears in the sentence. Both $w_p$ and $w_a$ have their respective meanings: pun sense $S_p$ and alternative sense $S_a$, which are supported by the clever use of contextual words $C_w$. In the first instance, the $C_w$ are “*friend*” and “*to piece*”, and in the second example, are “*life*” and “*puzzle*”. Following the notation of Sun et al. (2022b), we refer to $w_p$, $w_a$, $S_p$, and $S_a$ together as the *pun pair*, denoted as $P_p = \langle w_p, w_a, S_p, S_a \rangle$.

## 4 Probing Protocol

In this section, we design an evaluation protocol consisting of three progressive tasks to assess whether LLMs can understand puns well.

### 4.1 Task Formulation

**Task 1: Pun Recognition** This task requires the LLM to determine the corresponding category $C \in \{\text{pun, non-pun}\}$ for a given text $T$, as shown in the following two examples.

**Input Text:** Pick your friends, but not to pieces.  
**Model Output:** The given text is a pun.  
**Input Text:** A man’s home is his castle.  
**Model Output:** The given text is a non-pun.

**Task 2: Pun Explanation** This task asks the LLM to provide a natural language explanation $E$ for a given pun text $T_p$, by explicitly clarifying each element of the pun pair and the humor they express. Here is an example:

**Input Text:** Life is a puzzle, look here for the missing peace.  
**Model Output:** The text uses the homophones "piece" and "peace". "Piece" is expected in a puzzle context, but "peace" is used, shifting the meaning to tranquility. Thus it delivers a sense of humor.

**Task 3: Pun Generation** This task requires the LLM to generate a pun text $T_p$ based on the input. We explore two types of inputs in our settings. Both types accept a pun pair $P_p$ as the basic input, but one can freely use context, while the other must utilize the given contextual words $C_w$. In the following two examples, senses $S_p$ and $S_a$ are enclosed with “<>”:

**Pun Pair $P_p$:** peace &lt;freedom from disputes&gt;;  
piece &lt;separate part of a whole&gt;  
**Model Output:** When the pie was divided, everyone had a peace.  
**Pun Pair $P_p$:** peace &lt;freedom from disputes&gt;;  
piece &lt;separate part of a whole&gt;  
**Contextual Words $C_w$:** life, puzzle  
**Model Output:** In the puzzle of life, finding peace is difficult.

### 4.2 Task Implementation

We design specific prompts for LLMs to test their inherent abilities on these three tasks.[^1]

- For **pun recognition**, we focus on the model’s accuracy and confidence in its response. Therefore, we craft two slightly biased instructions (one leaning towards pun and the other non-pun) in the prompt. We also incorporate the definition of puns and several examples into the prompt to assess their impact.
- For **pun explanation**, we introduce the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) technique (Wei et al., 2022) in the recognition prompt, which requires the LLM to provide the reason before making a decision. The “reason” part is directly collected as the corresponding explanation.
- For **pun generation**, we employ two prompts with different requirements. In the free mode, LLM can freely choose its context based on the given $P_p$. In the restricted mode, LLM needs to leverage the words from $C_w$ as much as possible. This enables us to evaluate the LLM’s capacity to generate puns freely and under constraints.

[^1]: All prompts for three pun-related tasks are available at Appendix B.
