Gemini Team Google. 2023. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.11805*.

Aishwarya Gupta, Avik Pal, Bholeshwar Khurana, Lakshay Tyagi, and Ashutosh Modi. 2021. Humor@IITK at SemEval-2021 task 7: Large language models for quantifying humor and offensiveness. In *Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2021)*, pages 290–296, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

He He, Nanyun Peng, and Percy Liang. 2019. Pun generation with surprise. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 1734–1744, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Christian F Hempelmann. 2008. Computational humor: Beyond the pun? *The Primer of Humor Research. Humor Research*, 8:333–360.

Jack Hessel, Ana Marasovic, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 688–714, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Sophie Jentzsch and Kristian Kersting. 2023. ChatGPT is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models. In *Proceedings of the 13th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment, & Social Media Analysis*, pages 325–340, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Albert Q Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, et al. 2023. Mistral 7b. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06825*.

Justine T Kao, Roger Levy, and Noah D Goodman. 2016. A computational model of linguistic humor in puns. *Cognitive science*, 40(5):1270–1285.

Dayoon Ko, Sangho Lee, and Gunhee Kim. 2023. Can language models laugh at YouTube short-form videos? In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 2897–2916, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Shuang Li, Jiangjie Chen, Siyu Yuan, Xinyi Wu, Hao Yang, Shimin Tao, and Yanghua Xiao. 2024. Translate meanings, not just words: Idiomkb’s role in optimizing idiomatic translation with language models. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, volume 38, pages 18554–18563.

Stephen Merity, Caiming Xiong, James Bradbury, and Richard Socher. 2016. Pointer sentinel mixture models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.07843*.

Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean. 2013. Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1301.3781*.

Tristan Miller, Christian Hempelmann, and Iryna Gurevych. 2017. SemEval-2017 task 7: Detection and interpretation of English puns. In *Proceedings of the 11th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2017)*, pages 58–68, Vancouver, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Anirudh Mittal, Yufei Tian, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. AmbiPun: Generating humorous puns with ambiguous context. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 1053–1062, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

OpenAI. 2023a. Gpt-3.5-turbo.

OpenAI. 2023b. Gpt-4 and gpt-4-turbo.

OpenAI. 2023c. Gpt-4 technical report.

Yujia Qin, Shihao Liang, Yining Ye, Kunlun Zhu, Lan Yan, Yaxi Lu, Yankai Lin, Xin Cong, Xiangru Tang, Bill Qian, Sihan Zhao, Lauren Hong, Runchu Tian, Ruobing Xie, Jie Zhou, Mark Gerstein, dahai li, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2024. ToolLLM: Facilitating large language models to master 16000+ real-world APIs. In *The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations*.

Sahithya Ravi, Patrick Huber, Akshat Shrivastava, Aditya Sagar, Ahmed Aly, Vered Shwartz, and Arash Einolghozati. 2024. Small but funny: A feedback-driven approach to humor distillation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.18113*.

Andrew Stott. 2014. *Comedy*. Routledge.

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Alessandra Cervone, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022a. ExPUNations: Augmenting puns with keywords and explanations. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4590–4605, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Shuyang Gao, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022b. Context-situated pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4635–4648, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.
