Mohit Chandra, Dheeraj Pailla, Himanshu Bhatia, Aadilmehdi Sanchawala, Manish Gupta, Manish Shrivastava, and Ponnurangam Kumaraguru. 2021. “subverting the jewtocracy”: Online antisemitism detection using multimodal deep learning. In *Proceedings of the 13th ACM Web Science Conference 2021*, pages 148–157.

Zhe Chen, Jiannan Wu, Wenhai Wang, Weijie Su, Guo Chen, Sen Xing, Muyan Zhong, Qinglong Zhang, Xizhou Zhu, Lewei Lu, and et al. 2024. Internvl: Scaling up vision foundation models and aligning for generic visual-linguistic tasks. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*, pages 24185–24198.

Google DeepMind. 2025. Gemini 2.5 pro: Best for coding and complex prompts. *https://deepmind.google/technologies/gemini/pro/*.

Elisabetta Fersini, Francesca Gasparini, Giulia Rizzi, Aurora Saibene, Berta Chulvi, Paolo Rosso, Alyssa Lees, and Jeffrey Sorensen. 2022. Semeval-2022 task 5: Multimedia automatic misogyny identification. In *Proceedings of the 16th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2022)*, pages 533–549.

Ming Shan Hee, Wen-Haw Chong, and Roy Ka-Wei Lee. 2023. Decoding the underlying meaning of multimodal hateful memes. In *Proceedings of the Thirty-Second International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, pages 5995–6003.

Ming Shan Hee, Roy Ka-Wei Lee, and Wen-Haw Chong. 2022. On explaining multimodal hateful meme detection models. In *Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2022*, pages 3651–3655.

Jianzhao Huang, Hongzhan Lin, Liu Ziyan, Ziyang Luo, Guang Chen, and Jing Ma. 2024. Towards low-resource harmful meme detection with lmm agents. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 2269–2293.

Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, and et al. 2024. Gpt-4o system card. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21276*.

EunJeong Hwang and Vered Shwartz. 2023. Meme-cap: A dataset for captioning and interpreting memes. In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 1433–1445.

Douwe Kiela, Suvrat Bhooshan, Hamed Firooz, Ethan Perez, and Davide Testuggine. 2019. Supervised multimodal bitransformers for classifying images and text. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.02950*.

Douwe Kiela, Hamed Firooz, Aravind Mohan, Vedanuj Goswami, Amanpreet Singh, Pratik Ringshia, and Davide Testuggine. 2020. The hateful memes challenge: Detecting hate speech in multimodal memes. *Advances in neural information processing systems*, 33:2611–2624.

Aleksi Knuutila, Anna George, Jonathan Bright, Anna George, and Philip Howard. 2024. The spread of anti-vaccination memes on facebook. In *Multidisciplinary International Symposium on Disinformation in Open Online Media*, pages 86–100. Springer.

Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Dong Guo, Renrui Zhang, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Kaichen Zhang, Peiyuan Zhang, Yanwei Li, Ziwei Liu, and et al. 2024. Llava-onevision: Easy visual task transfer. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.03326*.

Hongzhan Lin, Ziyang Luo, Bo Wang, Ruichao Yang, and Jing Ma. 2024. Goat-bench: Safety insights to large multimodal models through meme-based social abuse. *Preprint*, arXiv:2401.01523.

Phillip Lippe, Nithin Holla, Shantanu Chandra, Santhosh Rajamanickam, Georgios Antoniou, Ekaterina Shutova, and Helen Yannakoudakis. 2020. A multimodal framework for the detection of hateful memes. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.12871*.

Chen Liu, Gregor Geigle, Robin Krebs, and Iryna Gurevych. 2022. Figmemes: A dataset for figurative language identification in politically-opinionated memes. In *Proceedings of the 2022 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing*, pages 7069–7086.

Ryan M Milner. 2012. The world made meme: Discourse and identity in participatory media.

Jeongsik Park, Khoi PN Nguyen, Terrence Li, Suyeh Shrestha, Megan Kim Vu, Jerry Yining Wang, and Vincent Ng. 2024. Memeintent: Benchmarking intent description generation for memes. In *Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue*, pages 631–643.

Shraman Pramanick, Dimitar Dimitrov, Rituparna Mukherjee, Shivam Sharma, Md Shad Akhtar, Preslav Nakov, and Tanmoy Chakraborty. 2021a. Detecting harmful memes and their targets. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL-IJCNLP 2021*, pages 2783–2796.

Shraman Pramanick, Shivam Sharma, Dimitar Dimitrov, Md Shad Akhtar, Preslav Nakov, and Tanmoy Chakraborty. 2021b. Momenta: A multimodal framework for detecting harmful memes and their targets. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2021*, pages 4439–4455.

Qwen. 2024. Qvq: To see the world with wisdom. *https://qwenlm.github.io/blog/qvq-72b-preview/*.

Shivam Sharma, Siddhant Agarwal, Tharun Suresh, Preslav Nakov, Md Shad Akhtar, and Tanmoy
