duce a novel approach for modeling satirical news headlines as conditioned on a real-world context, and an information retrieval pipeline for constructing the real-world context for a given real satirical headline; (2) we generate a dataset of more than 15K real-world context–satirical headline pairs for conditional humor generation; (3) we formulate satirical headline generation as an abstractive summarization task, mapping from a real-world text document to a humorous headline, and (4) we show that both the language and summarization models can be fine-tuned to generate headlines that people find funny. We find that summarization models best support satire generation by enabling humorous text that is both coherent and topical.

The context-based model appears to capture aspects of a “humor transformation” that include “edgy”/taboo topics and the satirical news register. Additionally, our model appears to learn how to mimic known principles of humor, including false-analogy, and to use incongruous relationships between entities and ideas. We compare the context-based approach to a context-free language modeling baseline. While the context-free approach can produce funny results, we find that people rate the context-based approach as generating funnier headlines. The context-based approach is also able to generalize, and generate headlines for unseen news contexts. Together, the results demonstrate that summarization models, which provide rich textual feature extraction, may offer important tools for future work in computational humor.

In machine generation of humor, it is important to control for the possibility that the humor is emerging from amusing generation failures. Our comparisons with non-satirical baselines evince that, fortunately, annotators are laughing *with* our model, not *at* it.

## 2 Our Approach

We now provide background on our methods.

### 2.1 Headline Representation

We model a satirical headline $S_i$ as a function of an underlying latent joke $J_i$, which is, in turn, dependent on real-world context $C_i$,

$$
S_i = \textsc{Headline}(J_i), J_i = \textsc{Humor}(C_i).
$$

The goal of satirical news generation is then to map from context $C_i$ to a satirical headline $S_i$.

### 2.2 Retrieving Real World Context

Hossain et al. (2019) attribute the lack of progress in computational humor research to “the scarcity of public datasets.” In previous work, humans have been an essential in the labeling of these corpora. However, in the present work, we introduce an automatic, scalable pipeline for recovering background information for a satirical joke. We reconfigure the problem of matching headlines to a context as an unsupervised information retrieval task. The flow of our pipeline is displayed in Figure 1. We leverage the paradigm introduced by West and Horvitz (2019) of translating from funny text (a known satirical headline) to an unfunny related document. However, we expand this mapping to include a larger textual context.

In satirical headlines, the full “joke” may never be explicitly stated. However, the first line in a satirical article, referred to as the *lede*, contextualizes the headline by providing a grammatical, extended description and introducing named entities.

1. For a given satirical headline, we look up its lede, the first sentence in the body of the original satirical article.

2. We run the SpaCy Named Entity Recognition Tagger to extract named entities from the lede (Honnibal and Montani, 2017).

3. We then query these named entities on the news site CNN.com to retrieve contemporaneous news content published the week that the satirical article was written, along with all paragraphs from those entities’ Wikipedia entries.

The output of our pipeline (Figure 1) is a dictionary that maps satirical headlines to a ranked list of Wikipedia paragraphs and CNN news articles. We then combine these results into an aggregate text document to serve as fodder for training and evaluating.

### 2.3 Building a Synthetic Document

To build our aggregate context document, we take the first $k$ sentences from the top $n$ most relevant ranked documents $\{d_0, ..., d_{n-1}\}$. This synthetic document of retrieved entity text serves as the approximation of the real world context:

$$
\hat{C}_i = [d_0; ...; d_{n-1}] \approx C_i.
$$
