lines collected from The Onion, we extracted the first two words from each headline, and used these two words as prompts for greedy generation. For the context-based models, we generated headlines by feeding in the synthetic documents from our test set. In contrast to our language-model baselines, our context-based model never sees any segment of the original satirical headline.

### 3.2 Satire Generation Evaluation

We employed human annotators to evaluate the performance of different models on the satire-generation task. Workers on Amazon Mechanical Turk answered three questions for every generation: (1) Is the headline coherent? (2) Does the headline sound like The Onion? and (3) Is the headline funny? To control for funniness induced by incoherence, we instructed annotators to mark all ‘incoherent’ headlines as not funny.

For each generated headline, we received three unique annotations. To qualify, annotators must have come from the United States, have had more than 50 annotations approved in previous studies, and have had an annotation approval rating higher than 95%.

We had 750 headlines annotated for each model. Labels were determined by majority agreement (2/3+).

## 4 Results

This section describe the results of our evaluation.[^2]

Table 1: Model Comparison

| Model | Coherence | Onion | Funny | F \| C |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Onion (Gold) | **99.5%** | **86.6%** | **38.2%** | **38.4%** |
| Satire GPT-2 | 86.5% | 57.7% | 6.9% | 7.9% |
| News GPT-2 | **89.2%** | 36.9% | 2.4% | 2.7% |
| D-Context | 88.4% | **58.8%** | **9.4%** | 10.4% |
| E-Context | 80.2% | 57.8% | 8.7% | **10.8%** |
| A-Context | 85.3% | 54.9% | 8.8 % | 10.3% |

[^2]: We excluded the model trained on the Unfun.me corpus, as only 2.5% of its generations were rated as funny, and 64% of generations were simply duplicates of the original input context. The redundant generations likely resulted from the small corpus size, and the significant word-overlap between the ‘unfunned’ input and labels.

### 4.1 Quantitative Results

Table 2 contrasts the performance of the different headline-generation techniques as rated by the annotators. Coherence, Onion and Funny columns describe the majority vote among the three annotators for the category. Column $F|C$ contains the probability of a headline being rated funny, given that it is rated coherent. Because all funny annotations were also by default rated coherent, we computed $F|C$ by dividing the number of Funny headlines by Coherent headlines.

We also collected annotations for original Onion headlines, which we compared to the results for each of our models. As expected, expert-generated satirical headlines from The Onion perform best on the Coherence, Onion and Funny metrics, as well as $F|C$. In contrast, the news-based model was judged as Coherent, but not rated well on the humor-related metrics.

Importantly, the D-Context model achieved the highest Funny rating among all models, followed by the E-Context model. (The former had a Funny score $\sim 4 \times$ that of the News GPT-2 baseline). Additionally, the context-based models received higher Funny scores than the Satire GPT-2 language model (a 2% increase, approximately). This delta is especially impressive given that the context-free satirical language model was prompted with the first two words of a true satirical headline.

These results support the claim that context-based models more regularly produce funny generations than the context-free approaches. Additionally, all satire-trained models substantially outperformed the News GPT-2 baseline, providing critical evidence that the humor judgments are not simply due to awkward machine-generated language, but are a consequence of the fact that the models are learning to generate coherent, humorous text.

While the D-Context was rated over 8% more coherent than the E-Context model, a smaller fraction of the coherent generations are rated Funny. Our examinations of these generations reveal that primarily fine-tuning the decoder on satire may lead to coherent, but more standardized generations that are less conditioned on context. However, we measured the quantitative similarity of generations for all context-based models to their input document (See A.2), and found that all models produced generations that were as similar to their input document as the original satirical headline.

We will now examine the patterns that character-
