Thomas Winters, Vincent Nys, and Danny De Schreye. 2019. Towards a general framework for humor generation from rated examples. Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Computational Creativity, pages 274–281. Association for Computational Creativity; University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA.

Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, R’emi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, and Jamie Brew. 2019. Huggingface’s transformers: State-of-the-art natural language processing. *ArXiv*, abs/1910.03771.

Zhiwei Yu, Jiwei Tan, and Xiaojun Wan. 2018. A neural approach to pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 1650–1660, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

# A Appendices

## A.1 Dataset Evaluation

We employed 62 annotators via Amazon Mechanical Turk to evaluate the relevance of a sample of our retrieved documents to the original satirical articles. Annotators must (1) have come from the United States, (2) have had more than 50 annotations approved in previous studies, and (3) have an annotation approval rating higher than 95%. We evaluated the retrieved documents for 1500 of the satirical headlines. For each article, we present three different annotators with the satirical headline, lede and the top five retrieved documents from our ranker, each trimmed to contain only the title and the first three sentences of content. We asked annotators to evaluate how “relevant” each context document is relative to the satirical article, with relevant being defined as either (1) the context document covering the event discussed by the satirical article, or (2) the context document provides useful context to understand the satirical article. Table 2

Table 2: Top 5 Retrieved Document Relevance

| Consensus | Top 1 | Top 2 | Top 3 | Top 4 | Top 5 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $\geq 1$ | 86.7% | 96.3% | 97.7% | 98.5% | 99.0% |
| Majority | 48.3% | 61.5% | 69.1% | 74.5% | 80.7% |

describes the result of the evaluation. The first row indicates the percentage of all headlines where at least one annotator considered one of the top $n$ retrieved documents to be relevant. The second gives the fraction of headlines where 2/3+ annotators agreed that at least one of the top $n$ retrieved documents was relevant to the original satirical article.

For approximately 80% of the headlines, a majority of annotators deemed at least one of the top five retrieved documents to be relevant. For 99% of headlines, at least one annotator believed that one of the top five retrieved documents were relevant. These results indicate our automatic pipeline systematically retrieves relevant articles. We believe that we could further improve retrieval accuracy via (1) filtering out satirical headlines less likely to have contextual information (e.g. “Nervous New Driver Going To Stick To Sidewalks Until He’s More Confident”), (2) human labeling of the corpus, and/or (3) training a reranker with human labels on a subset of the corpus.

## A.2 Generation Relevance to Context

To evaluate the extent to which our generations incorporate the input context, we performed quantitative evaluations of similarity. For each contextual model, we computed the Jaccard index between each headline in the test set and its corresponding input context. We then normalized these scores by the *average* Jaccard index between that headline and every context. This metric captures similarity to the specific context, relative to an arbitrary context.

Table 3: Generation-to-Context Similarity

| Model | Normalized Jaccard (Avg.) |
|---|---:|
| Onion | 5.0 |
| Summarizer | 9.9 |
| D-Context | 6.2 |
| E-Context | 6.7 |
| A-Context | 6.0 |

Table 3 contains the generation-to-context similarity score for each model. These values were computed by tokenizing the headline and input, stemming tokens, and filtering out stopwords.

Critically, we see that all models receive scores significantly greater than 1. This result indicates that the headlines are substantially more similar to their input context than to an arbitrary one. As expected, the pretrained summarization model (with no satirical fine-tuning) receives the highest generation-to-content similarity score. Additionally, D-Context, which has an attenuated encoder learning rate, is less contextually relevant than E-Context.
