# Context-Driven Satirical Headline Generation

**Zachary Horvitz** **Nam Do** **Michael L. Littman**  
Department of Computer Science  
Brown University  
Providence, RI 02912  
{zachary_horvitz,nam_do,michael_littman}@brown.edu

## Abstract

While mysterious, humor likely hinges on an interplay of entities, their relationships, and cultural connotations. Motivated by the importance of context in humor, we consider methods for constructing and leveraging contextual representations in generating humorous text. Specifically, we study the capacity of transformer-based architectures to generate funny satirical headlines, and show that both language models and summarization models can be fine-tuned to regularly generate headlines that people find funny. Furthermore, we find that summarization models uniquely support satire-generation by enabling the generation of topical humorous text. Outside of our formal study, we note that headlines generated by our model were accepted via a competitive process into a satirical newspaper, and one headline was ranked as high or better than 73% of human submissions. As part of our work, we contribute a dataset of over 15K satirical headlines paired with ranked contextual information from news articles and Wikipedia.

## 1 Introduction

Despite long-term interest in the foundations of humor, work to date in the NLP community on humorous text has largely relied on surface-level features (e.g., puns). We study employing richer contextual representations to generate satirical news headlines, which necessitate a balance between funniness and topicality. While our particular focus is humor, our methods are broadly applicable to tasks that require reasoning over textual knowledge.

Consider the following satirical headline from The Onion (TheOnion.com):

*TC Energy Says Keystone Pipeline Failed Due To Protestors Making It Lose Confidence In Itself*

In addition to knowing the connection between failure and self-confidence, processing the humor of this headline presupposes knowing (or inferring):

1. TC Energy Oversaw the Keystone XL Pipeline.

2. The Keystone XL pipeline failed amid protests.

Thus, satirical news requires an appreciation of a real-world, non-funny context.

Existing literature on the psychology of humor emphasizes the role of complex representations and relationships (Morreall, 2016; Martin, 2010; Attardo, 2001; Raskin, 1985; Attardo, 2014). Psychologists have offered multiple theories of humor. According to “Superiority Theory,” jokes hinge on the power-relations between entities, while “Relief Theory” ventures that humor releases conflict between desires and inhibitions. “Incongruity Theory” sees humor as emerging from low-probability juxtapositions between objects and events.

Regardless of the theoretical framework, moving from surface-level features to a deeper analysis of humor requires an implicit calculus of entities, their relationships, and even cultural connotations. Recent NLP and NLG research has sought to apply psychological hypotheses to understand and generate humorous text. J.T. Kao (2016) applied the incongruity framework to analyze and predict the funniness of puns, and found that puns rated funnier tended to be more ambiguous. Building on the aforementioned work, Yu et al. (2018) applied neural models to pun generation, and He et al. (2019) found that puns could be procedurally created by inserting low-probability (as determined by a language model) homophones into non-funny sentences.

Other related work has established style-transfer and translation approaches for sarcasm generation. For example, Mishra et al. (2019) introduced a pipeline for converting an input sentence to a sarcastic form by neutralizing its sentiment, translating it into strong positive sentiment, and then combining it with a negative event. This pairing creates

*Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Figurative Language Processing, pages 40–50*  
July 9, 2020. ©2020 Association for Computational Linguistics  
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.figlang-1.6
