ize these generations.

## 4.2 Qualitative Analysis

In our initial analyses of the characteristic behaviors of the models, we have observed a transformation from events referenced in the context into a “newsy” register, the introduction of expressions of uncertainty, sweeping generalizations, and incongruous juxtapositions (see Figure 2).

The adoption of a newsy tone is readily apparent; the model invents “studies” and “reports” even when none are mentioned in the original context. Additionally, common forms include “$X$ announces/unveils $Y$,” where $X$ and $Y$ are extracted from the context, or are particularly polarizing topics from The Onion corpus, like “abortion” or “sex.”

The model also refers to general entities often referenced by Onion writers. These include common satirical terms for everyday people, like ‘area man.’ When the model employs these characters, it tends to decode out more observational headlines, like *area man just wants to know what he ’s doing*, that are less related to the given context. Our Decoder-Weighted-Model exhibited this behavior more often.

The context-based generations also introduce apparent “incongruities” in a variety of ways. For example, the models catch the satirical news trick of juxtaposing a ‘study’ with an unscientific remark. For example: *study finds americans should be more obese by now*. Another, most obvious example of incongruity is the mention of absurd, yet contextually relevant events (e.g. *study finds majority of americans still in oil spill*).

However, the most fascinating cases are when the reality articulated in the input context is inverted. For example, *god admits he’s not the creator* when the context very much states that He is. Similarly, in Figure 2, we see *scientists discover that oil spills caused by natural causes*, when the context argues quite the opposite. This juxtaposition works as a humorous construction and suggests that the model has latched onto something like a general principle.

We submitted these two generated headlines, along with others, to the Brown Noser[^1], Brown University’s campus satirical newspaper:

- *God Unveils New Line of Sex*
- *U.S. Asks Pugs If they Can Do Anything*

Staff writers rated the latter as high as or better than 73% of writer submissions. Both were accepted for publication and express several aspects of observed humor transformation captured by our context-based models. The first juxtaposes newsy language (for example, Unveils, New line of, U.S.) with incongruous entities like ‘God’ and ‘Sex.’ The second relates pugs to U.S. governmental affairs. The latter article was published with an accompanying article written by a human satirical writer (See A.3).

## 4.3 Sensitivity Analysis

The latent space of Transformer-based architectures is fundamentally difficult to analyze. However, our summarization approach gives us the ability to probe the relationship between context and output: We can perturb the input context and examine the resulting change to the decoding headline. Thus far, we have observed that our model is less sensitive to changes to the context in the form of adjectives or negations than it is to changes in the entities. Additionally, key terms in the context can activate certain headlines. For example, mentions of the Royal family tend to prompt the same original headline: *Royal baby born in captivity.* However, in other instances, the entire tone of the resulting headline can be changed by single verb substitution. For example:

> “harriet hall of science based medicine reviewed the film in an article entitled ‘ does the movie fed up make sense ? ’ . the film [**makes/disputes**] the claim that drinking one soda a day will increase a child’s chance of becoming obese by 60 %”
>
> 1. **makes:** study finds americans should be more obese by now
> 2. **disputes:** study finds average american has no idea how to get overweight

In both cases, the model introduced a fictional study. However, the latter appears to capture the uncertainty around the disputed claim that one can become obese by drinking a soda. Future work is necessary to explore the relationship between context and output.

[^1]: http://thenoser.com/
