## Acknowledgments

Special thanks to Ellie Pavlick for providing valuable feedback through the course of this research. Additionally, we are grateful to Jacob Lockwood, an editor of the Brown Noser Satirical Newspaper, for offering the necessary human talent to parlay our model’s output into a full satirical article (Figure 4).

This work is supported in part by the ONR PERISCOPE MURI award N00014-17-1-2699.

## References

Khalid Alnajjar and Mika Hämäläinen. 2018. A master-apprentice approach to automatic creation of culturally satirical movie titles. In *Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Natural Language Generation*, pages 274–283, Tilburg University, The Netherlands. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Salvatore Attardo. 2001. *Humorous Texts: A Semantic and Pragmatic Analysis*. Mouton de Gruyter.

Salvatore Attardo. 2014. Humor in language. In *Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Linguistics*. Oxford University Press.

Salvatore Attardo and Victor Raskin. 1991. Script theory revis(it)ed: Joke similarity and joke representation model. *HUMOR: International Journal of Humor Research*, 4(3/4):293–348.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT: pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. *CoRR*, abs/1810.04805.

Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020. Realm: Retrieval-augmented language model pre-training. *ArXiv*, abs/2002.08909.

He He, Nanyun Peng, and Percy Liang. 2019. Pun generation with surprise. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 1734–1744, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Matthew Honnibal and Ines Montani. 2017. spaCy 2: Natural language understanding with Bloom embeddings, convolutional neural networks and incremental parsing. To appear.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, and Michael Gamon. 2019. “president vows to cut <taxes> hair”: Dataset and analysis of creative text editing for humorous headlines. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 133–142, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

J.T. Kao, R. Levy, and N. D. Goodman. 2016. A computational model of linguistic humor in puns. *Cognitive Science*.

Yang Liu and Mirella Lapata. 2019. Text summarization with pretrained encoders. In *EMNLP/IJCNLP*.

Rod A Martin. 2010. *The Psychology of Humor: An Integrative Approach*. Elsevier.

Abhijit Mishra, Tarun Tater, and Karthik Sankaranarayanan. 2019. A modular architecture for unsupervised sarcasm generation. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 6144–6154, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

John Morreall. 2016. Philosophy of humor. In Edward N. Zalta, editor, *The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy*, winter 2016 edition. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University.

Ramesh Nallapati, Bowen Zhou, Cicero dos Santos, Çağlar Gülçehre, and Bing Xiang. 2016. Abstractive text summarization using sequence-to-sequence RNNs and beyond. In *Proceedings of The 20th SIGNLL Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning*, pages 280–290, Berlin, Germany. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever. 2019. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI Blog.

Victor Raskin. 1985. *Semantic Mechanisms of Humor*. Reidel.

Victor Raskin. 2012. A little metatheory: Thought on what a theory of computational humor should look like. In *AAAI Fall Symposium: Artificial Intelligence of Humor*.

Dafna Shahaf, Eric Horvitz, and Robert Mankoff. 2015. Inside jokes: Identifying humorous cartoon captions. In *Proc. ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD)*.

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you need. *ArXiv*, abs/1706.03762.

Robert West and Eric Horvitz. 2019. Reverse-engineering satire, or ”paper on computational humor accepted despite making serious advances”. *CoRR*, abs/1901.03253.
