#### 4.4 Topical Generation for News Stories

We can apply our model to novel news stories. While all of our training headlines were collected before COVID-19 was declared a pandemic in March 2020, our model shows an ability to generalize to pandemic-related news stories and generate topical headlines (Figure 3). We preprocessed the beginning of CNN articles from April 2020 with the pretrained BERTsum model to generate concise abstracts, and then input these summaries into our networks. Our models appear to condition on these new contexts and generate related satirical headlines.

[Figure: boxed examples of inputs and generated satirical headlines.]

**Input:** president donald trump doubled down on an unproven therapy for the novel coronavirus . without citing evidence , he said it’s a ”great ” and ”powerful” anti-malaria drug ” . trump said it ’ s

- trump doubles down on prescription drug that can cause coronavirus

**Input:** questions over whether downing street was fully transparent about the prime minister’s health . but important issues risk overshadowing the true picture of the uk’s struggle against coronavirus . the uk is on a similar, grim trajectory as the uk is

- nation ’s love of coronavirus now a little more complex

**Input:** president donald trump announced tuesday he is halting funding to the world health organization while a review is conducted . trump said the review would cover the ” role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of coronavirus ” . trump has sought to assign blame elsewhere , including at the who and in the news media

- world health organization unveils new “ ” plan to cover up coronavirus

Figure 3: We preprocessed CNN articles from April using the pretrained abstractive summarization model provided by Liu and Lapata (2019). Our approach appears to generalize to these novel news contexts.

The resulting generations incorporate named entities from the context, and embed them in a humorous generation.

## 5 Future Work

We intend to further investigate the latent and embedding spaces of our model, and hope to better elucidate the neural-logic that transposes everyday events into humorous language.

Additionally, our context-driven approach allows us to examine the relationship between real-world, input events, and the resulting satirical output. We plan to continue probing this relationship, and to refine our understanding of the processes underlying our generations, and how their relationship to real-world events can be interpreted within proposed theories of humor, including the Script-Based Semantic Theory of Humor (See A.4).

While we treat document retrieval as a preprocessing step, we can also explore including retrieval in end-to-end training, as employed by Guu et al. (2020).

Lastly, we are fascinated by the potential for leveraging other text-based contextual representations, ranging from alternative types of document and longer-form text, to graph-encoded representations of events and entities. These approaches can provide alternative blends of depth, concision, and structure.

## 6 Conclusion

We introduced a methodology and formalization for modeling satirical news headlines as conditioned on a real-world context, and presented an information retrieval pipeline for constructing that context. We found that pretrained abstractive summarization models provide powerful feature extractors atop these rich contextual representations. Conditioning on such contextual documents enabled the generation of topical satire that people determined to be funnier than headlines generated via context-free methods. Additionally, we discovered that the approach generalizes to new topics and circumstances.

Moving beyond the focus on generating satirical headlines, we believe that variations of our approach are broadly applicable to tasks ranging from information retrieval and dialogue to reading comprehension. Our work provides further evidence that neural architectures, augmented with task-relevant contextual information, have the potential to reason about sub-textual concepts, including the subtleties of humor.
