Once we have mapped every satirical headline to a corresponding context, we then train our model to approximate:

$$
\hat{C}_i \mapsto S_i.
$$

In other words, we train our summarization model to encode the contextual representation, augment it with pretrained embeddings, and then decode the original satirical headline.

## 2.4 Datasets

We retrieve documents for 15199 satirical Onion headlines.

To build our training and testing datasets, we include the first four sentences from the top two CNN articles and from the top three remaining documents by rank. (This design biases our contextual document towards news content, when it is available). We then trim these aggregate contexts, which we refer to as synthetic documents, down to approximately 512 tokens. We experimented with several document-creation schemes, including building a larger corpus by stochastically sampling from the different text sources.

The resulting dataset comprises over document–headline pairs. We employed human annotators to confirm that our retrieved documents are regularly relevant to the original satirical article. These results are included in the Appendix (See A.1).

For our news-based context-free baseline model, we used the roughly 10K real news headlines from the Unfun.me corpus. As an additional baseline, we trained the model on the 2758 unfunned-satirical pairs provided in the corpus. Each satirical headline had multiple “unfunned” candidates, so we ensured that no such duplicates appeared in both the train and test corpora.

We used an 85-15 train-test split for all satire models.

## 2.5 Models

We leverage recent breakthroughs in document summarization by employing the abstractive summarization model introduced by Liu and Lapata (2019)(Nallapati et al., 2016). The architecture is state-of-the-art on the CNN-DailyMail Test.[^1] Their architecture, BERTSum, augments BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) with sentence embeddings to build document-level encodings. These encoder embeddings are then fed to a Transformer decoder (Vaswani et al., 2017). The BERTSum encoder is then secondarily pretrained on an extractive summarization task before finally being fine-tuned on an abstractive summarization task. For our work, we fine-tuned a BERTSum model pretrained for abstractive and extractive summarization on 286K CNN and Daily Mail articles.

We settled on three main fine-tuning schemes, which yielded three distinct context-based models. For the **Encoder-Weighted-Context** (E-Context) model, we trained the encoder and decoder with learning rates of 0.002 and 0.02, respectively. For the **Abstractive-Context** (A-Context) model, we trained the network on contexts that had been preprocessed by the pretrained abstractive summarizer. For **Decoder-Weighted-Context** (D-Context), we trained the decoder with a learning rate of 0.02, and an encoder with learning rate 0.00002. For all models, we used batches of size 200, a warmup of 500, and decayed the learning rate using the function implemented by Liu and Lapata (2019).

We applied these varied schemes as a means of exploring the relationship between learning a new encoder representation and fine-tuning a new ‘satirical’ decoder atop the pretrained summarization encoder module. Additionally, we include the abstractive approach to test the value of a more concise document formulation.

For the context-free baselines, we fine-tuned Hugging Face’s large GPT-2 model on the satirical headlines in our corpus (Radford et al., 2019; Wolf et al., 2019). We also fine-tuned the GPT-2 model on a corpus of 10K real news headlines from the Unfun.me corpus.

# 3 Experimental Design

We tested our models by sampling headline generations and evaluating their quality via crowdsourcing.

## 3.1 Satire Generation

We began by greedily generating headlines from our baseline models: the GPT-2 context-free satire model and the GPT-2 context-free news model. Since language models only condition on the previous tokens in a sequence, generating diverse outputs requires random sampling. However, we found that common approaches (such as Top-$k$ and Top-$p$ sampling) rapidly degraded headline quality. Thus, from our validation set of 1955 satirical head-

[^1]: https://paperswithcode.com/sota/document-summarization-on-cnn-daily-mail
