[Figure: Screenshot of waveform and time-aligned annotation tiers. Visible tier labels include Tokenization, PhonAlign, TokensAlign, Activity, Syllables, Classes, Structures, S-morphosyn, S-category, S-lemma, and Transcription; sample French transcription includes “tu vas avec ton père euh il repart avec mille chameaux à @@”.]

**Figure 3:** Example of some of the automatic annotations generated by SPPAS and MarsaTag software tools from the Transcription (last tier) and the audio file.

and Meunier, 2018), Syllabification (Bigi et al., 2010) and Activity. Each of them resulted in a time-aligned set of annotation tiers. One of the specificities of such system is that the filled-pause is represented by a specific acoustic model; and the same for the laughter and the noise. It results in accurate segmentation of spontaneous speech, as shown in (Bigi and Meunier, 2018).

Figure 3 displays several of such tiers: only the last one with the EOT was manually constructed. All the other tiers were automatically generated: the Tokenization tier is one of tiers resulting of the text normalization process; the PhonAlign tier represents time-aligned sounds (phonemes, laughter, filled pauses, short pauses and noises); the TokensAlign tier contains time-aligned tokens like words, truncated words, filled pauses, etc; the Activity tier is the main activities such as speech or silence; Syllables/Classes/Structures are the result of the syllabification process. The part-of-speech (POS) tags were automatically identified using MarsaTag (Rauzy et al., 2014). It considers 9 parts-of-speech categories: adjective, adverb, auxiliary, conjunction, determiner, noun, preposition, pronoun, and verb. The result is represented by the tiers S-morphosyntax, S-category and S-lemma.

### 3.4. Manual annotations of smiles

The smiles that occurred during two interactions, (MA_PC and JS_CL), were manually annotated, using the “Smiling Intensity Scale” (SIS) (Gironzetti et al., 2016). The SIS progressively measures the smile intensity from 0 (neutral face) to 4 (laughter), based on Action Units (AUs) detailed by the Facial Action Coding System (FACS) (Ekman and Friesen, 1978). Table 1 represents the 5 levels of smile intensity from this corpus.

In applying this scale, manual annotations of smiles were performed with ELAN software on each participant. Instead of deciding where a smile starts and ends, each interaction was divided into 400 ms intervals. This sampling rate has been chosen as this is considered the time necessary to produce or perceive a complex gesture such as smiling (Sanders and Sanders, 2013; Heerey and Crossley, 2013). Then, each interval was assigned a smile intensity. This predefined interval at which a smile category must be assigned allows to allows for reduced subjectivity in annotating the be the beginning or end of a smile. Furthermore, it is easier to perform counter-coding on intervals of the same duration and location. 2,610 smile intensities were annotated in MA_PC and 2,475 in JS_CL. This annotation protocol allows us to precisely analyze the evolution of each participant’s smile. A double coding was carried out on both interactions to validate the reliability of these annotations and the relative objectivity of the scale used. We then calculated Cohen’s Kappa (Cohen, 1960), a statistical measure used to compare the annotations of two judges. Both inter-annotator agreement rates were qualified as excellent: 0.87 for MA_PC and 0.89 for JS_CL.

### 3.5. Manual annotations of humor

Humorous instances of the same two interactions (MA_PC and JS_CL) were manually annotated by one of the authors using Praat (Figure 4). First, the entire humorous sequences were annotated and classified either as canned joke (CJ) or conversational humor (CH). Then, within each sequence of conversational humor, humorous items were annotated. Two categories of criteria were applied to recognize humor. The first one stems from the General Theory of Verbal Humor (Attardo and Raskin, 1991; Attardo, 2001), such as the “script opposition”, and the “logical mechanism” (Attardo, 2001). The second one stems from previous studies highlighting linguistic devices frequently used by humor in conversation such as punning, pinning, repetition (see section 1.3) and references to the participants’ common ground (Priego-Valverde, 2003).

Finally, the analysis of each reaction to a humorous item allows us to distribute each of them in failed (Fa) and successful humor (Su). Three negative reactions were observed (Priego-Valverde, 2020): humor acknowledged but answered seriously (A), humor ignored (I), and humor explicitly rejected (R). When none of these reactions were observed, the humorous items were qualified as successful.

## 4. Lexical coverage

From the result of the automatic text normalization, we evaluated that the 5 dialogues of Cheese! are made up of 2,130 different words representing 20,201 occurrences. In addition to these words, the dialogues include the following items:

- 3,196 silences;
- 334 pauses;
- 176 noises;
