vocabulary used: 40 words cover 50% of the dialogs. So far, manual annotations of smiling and humor have been provided for two interactions (MA_PC and JS_CL). The results of this exploratory study need to be interpreted with caution, and further research is needed to deepen our understanding of the interplay between smiling and humor. Thus, when all the interactions are transcribed and annotated, further studies will take two directions. First, the same analysis will be carried out on the entire corpus in order to confirm (or not) the role of smiling and mean smiling intensity as a marker of humor. The real impact of mean smiling intensity on the success or failure of humor will be also investigated more in depth. Second, certain factors which may explain some of the variations in our results will be explored, such as gender and conversational topics developed by the participants.

The experimental protocol used for Cheese! has led to the creation of a high-quality data set that opens many perspectives for future research. The separation of the audio files facilitates their transcriptions, allowing for phonetic and prosody analyses. The conversational setting allows for the analysis of conversational phenomena. Finally, the quality of the videos allows for future analysis of smiling, and more generally, of other non-verbal phenomena such as hand gestures, nods, and postures.

## 8. Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank the CEP - Centre d’Expérimentation de la Parole, the shared experimental platform for its help in creating the recordings.

## 9. Annexes

**Frog joke**

An engineer was crossing a road one day when a frog called out to him and said, “If you kiss me, I’ll turn into a beautiful princess.”

He bent over, picked up the
