*Challenges for Computer Science and Linguistics*, LNAI-9561:397–410.

Birdwhistell, R. L. and Lacoste, M. (1968). L’analyse kinésique. *Langages*, 3(10):101–106.

Boersma, P. and Weenink, D. (2018). Praat: doing phonetics by computer [computer program], version 6.0.37, retrieved 14 march 2018 from http://www.praat.org/.

Boxer, D. and Cortés-Conde, F. (1997). From bonding to biting: Conversational joking and identity display. *Journal of Pragmatics*, 27(3):275–294.

Brugman, H., Russel, A., and Nijmegen, X. (2004). Annotating multi-media/multi-modal resources with elan. In *LREC*.

Cohen, J. (1960). A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales. *Educational and psychological measurement*, 20(1):37–46.

Cosnier, J. and Kerbrat-Orecchioni, C. (1987). *Décrire la conversation avec R. Bouchard, L. Fontaney, M.-M. de Gaulmyn, S. Rémi-Giraud, Ch. Rittaut-Hutinet*, volume 15. Presses universitaires de Lyon.

Eisterhold, J., Attardo, S., and Boxer, D. (2006). Reactions to irony in discourse: evidence for the least disruption principle. *Journal of Pragmatics*, 38(8):1239–1256.

Ekman, P. and Friesen, W. (1975). *Unmasking the face : a guide to recognizing emotions from facial clues*. Englewood Cliffs : Prentice-hall.

Ekman, P. and Friesen, W. V. (1978). *Facial Action Coding System: Manual*, volume 1-2. Consulting Psychologists Press.

Ekman, P. (1984). Expression and the nature of emotion. *Approaches to emotion*, 3:19–344.

Fernández-Dols, J.-M. and Ruiz-Belda, M.-A. (1995). Are smiles a sign of happiness? gold medal winners at the olympic games. *Journal of personality and social psychology*, 69(6):1113.

Foot, H. (2017). *Humor and laughter: Theory, research and applications*. Routledge.

Gironzetti, E., Attardo, S., and Pickering, L. (2016). Smiling, gaze, and humor in conversation. *Metapragmatics of humor: Current research trends*, 14:235.

Gironzetti, E., Attardo, S., and Pickering, L. (2019). Smiling and the negotiation of humor in conversation. *Discourse Processes*, 56(7):496–512.

Graham, J. A. and Argyle, M. (1975). A cross-cultural study of the communication of extra-verbal meaning by gestures (1). *International Journal of Psychology*, 10(1):57–67.

Hay, J. (1994). Jocular abuse in mixed gender interaction. *Wellington Working Papers in Linguistics*, 6:26–55.

Hay, J. (2001). *The pragmatics of humor support*. Walter de Gruyter.

Heerey, E. A. and Crossley, H. M. (2013). Predictive and reactive mechanisms in smile reciprocity. *Psychological Science*, 24(8):1446–1455.

Jefferson, G. (1979). A technique for inviting laughter and its subsequent acceptance/declination. *Everyday language: Studies in ethnomethodology*, pages 79–96.

Jensen, M. (2015). Smile as feedback expressions in interpersonal interaction. *International Journal of Psychological Studies*, 7(4):95–105.

Kotthoff, H. (2000). Gender and joking: On the complexities of women’s image politics in humorous narratives. *Journal of pragmatics*, 32(1):55–80.

Morreall, J. (2001). Sarcasm, irony, wordplay, and humor in the hebrew bible: A response to hershey friedman. *Humor*, 14(3):293–302.

Norrick, N. R. (1993). *Conversational joking: Humor in everyday talk*. Indiana University Press.

Peshkov, K., Prévot, L., Bertrand, R., Rauzy, S., Blache, P., and Aix-En-Provence, F. (2012). Quantitative experiments on prosodic and discourse units in the corpus of interactional data. In *SemDial 2012 (SeineDial): The 16th Workshop on the Semantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue*, page 183.

Priego-Valverde, B. and Bigi, B. (2016). Smiling behavior in humorous and non humorous conversations: a preliminary cross-cultural comparison between american english and french. In *International Society for Humor Studies Conference*, Dublin, Ireland.

Priego-Valverde, Béatrice. (2016). Cheese! https://hdl.handle.net/11403/cheese.

Priego-Valverde, B., Bigi, B., Attardo, S., Pickering, L., and Gironzetti, E. (2018). Is smiling during humor so obvious? A cross-cultural comparison of smiling behavior in humorous sequences in american english and french interactions. *Intercultural Pragmatics*, 15(4):563–591.

Priego-Valverde, B. (2003). *L’humour dans la conversation familière: description et analyse linguistiques*. Editions L’Harmattan.

Priego-Valverde, B. (2016). Teasing in casual conversations. *Metapragmatics of Humor: Current research trends*, 14:215.

Priego-Valverde, B. (2017). Does smile can frame an utterance as humorous? An analysis of smiling behavior in conversations. In *iGesto’17*, Porto, Portugal.

Priego-Valverde, B. (2019). The "dark side" of humor. In *Plenary at ISHS*, Austin.

Priego-Valverde, B. (2020). ‘Stop kidding, I’m serious’: Failed humor in French conversations. *Script-based semantics foundations and applications. Essays in honor of Victor Raskin.*

Rauzy, S., Montcheuil, G., and Blache, P. (2014). Marsatag, a tagger for french written texts and speech transcriptions. page 220, Second Asian Pacific Corpus linguistics Conference.

Sacks, H. (1974). An analysis of the course of a joke’s telling in conversation. *Explorations in the ethnography of speaking.*

Sanders, A. F. and Sanders, A. (2013). *Elements of human performance: Reaction processes and attention in human skill.* Psychology Press.

Tannen, D. (1989). *Talking voices: Repetition. Dialogue, and Imagery in Conversational.*
