*Proceedings of the 12th Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2020), pages 467–475*  
Marseille, 11–16 May 2020  
© European Language Resources Association (ELRA), licensed under CC-BY-NC

# "Cheese!": a corpus of face-to-face French interactions.  
# A case study for analyzing smiling and conversational humor

**Béatrice Priego-Valverde, Brigitte Bigi, Mary Amoyal**  
Aix-Marseille Univ, CNRS, LPL  
5 avenue Pasteur, Aix-en-Provence, France  
{beatrice.priego-valverde;brigitte.bigi;mary.amoyal}@univ-amu.fr

## Abstract

The aim of this article is to present Cheese! a conversational corpus and, as an illustration, an example of study that such a multimodal corpus allows. Cheese! consists of 11 French face-to-face conversations lasting around 15 minutes each. In this article, the methodology used to collect and enrich the corpus “Cheese!” is detailed: experimental protocol, technical choices, transcription, semi-automatic annotations, manual annotations of smiling and humor. Then, an exploratory study investigating the links between smiling and humor is proposed. Based on the analysis of two interactions of “Cheese!”, two questions are asked: (1) Does smiling frame humor? (2) Does smiling have an impact on its success or failure? This study does not claim to fully answer these questions. Rather, it exemplifies which kinds of investigation are made possible by such a corpus. Although the experimental design of Cheese! has been elaborated specifically for the study of smiling and humor in conversations, the creation of high quality data set and the methodology presented can be replicated and applied to the analysis of many other conversational activities (such as narration or explanation) and other multimodal phenomena.

**Keywords:** Smiling, humor, conversation, annotation

## 1. Introduction

Cheese! is an audio-video conversational corpus recorded in 2016 at the LPL - Laboratoire Parole et Langage, Aix-en-Provence, France, at the CEP - Centre for Speech Experimentation[^1]. It consists of 11 mixed and non-mixed dyadic interactions, lasting around 15 minutes each. Cheese! was first collected in order to make a cross-cultural comparison of smiling during humorous productions between American English and French (Priego-Valverde et al., 2018). Consequently, it was recorded following the American protocol, as closely as possible, especially concerning the tasks given to the participants (see section 2.2).

The aim of this article is twofold. First, it presents the the technical choices and the experimental protocol used to construct the Cheese! corpus. So far, 5 interactions of the corpus have been semi-manually annotated using different tools: the corpus has been automatically segmented into Inter-Pausal units using SPPAS (Bigi, 2015) and manually transcribed using SPPAS and then Praat (Boersma and Weenink, 2018). Several automatic annotations were then generated using SPPAS and MarsaTag (Rauzy et al., 2014) software tools. Among these 5 interactions, 2 of them have been manually annotated: participants’ smiles using ELAN (Brugman et al., 2004), and humorous sequences using Praat. Second, we propose an exploratory study investigating the links between smiling and humor. Based on the analysis of two interactions, two questions will be asked: (1) Does smiling frame humor? (2) Does smiling have an impact on its success or failure?

[^1]: CEP is a shared experimental platform for the collection and analysis of data for the study of speech production and perception. Among others, the CEP allows to gather a wide range of audio and video data in its anechoic room.

## 2. Description of the corpus

### 2.1. Participants

The 22 participants of the corpus were students in Linguistics at Aix-Marseille University. The two participants of each interaction were in the same class and were also friends outside the university. All were French native students, from 20 to 40 years old. All were informed of the purpose of the data collection when it was entirely finished and all signed a written consent form (available on Ortolang) before the recordings.

### 2.2. Experimental protocol

Two tasks were given to the participants. First, they were asked to read each other a canned joke chosen by the researchers (see annex). Second, they were asked to speak as freely as they wished until the end of the interaction. These two tasks were given in order to compare the sequences of canned jokes and conversational humor both in French and American English corpora (Priego-Valverde et al., 2018). But in this article, only the sequences of conversational humor were analyzed.

The participants were recorded in a soundproof room where they were seated face-to-face as illustrated in Figure 1. Participants were fitted with two headset microphones (AKG-C520) optimally positioned so as not to hide the mouth. These microphones were connected by XLR to the RME Fireface UC, which is connected with a USB cable to a PC using Audacity software. The recordings are all sampled at 48,000 Hz in PCM signed 16 bits big-endian files (.wav). Two cameras were positioned in such a way that each participant was shown from the front. A video editing program was used to merge the two videos into a single one (Figure 2) and to embed the high-quality sound of the microphones. All the videos are 1920x1080 px sampled at 25 fps, with H264 codec embedded in a mp4 container.

All these primary data are stored in Ortolang, the Open
