and the impact of smiling in the success or failure of humor. In that aim, our approach of smiling relies on the Smiling Intensity Scale (SIS) (Gironzetti et al., 2016), an annotation system based on the Action Units from the FACS (Ekman and Friesen, 1978). This scale divides smiling into 5 degrees of intensities, from neutral face to laughing smile.

## 5.2. (Failed) humor in conversation

Since Norrick’s seminal work on “conversational joking” (Norrick, 1993) studies on humor in conversation are still increasing. Many of them focus on the social / relational functions of conversational humor, seen as a mixed phenomenon going “from bonding to biting” (Boxer and Cortés-Conde, 1997). Another kind of work focuses on the humorous devices used in conversations, such as punning (Norrick, 1993), pinning (Priego-Valverde, 2016), and repetitions (Tannen, 1989). Although far less frequent, studies on failed humor began to really appear in the 2000s. The most important part of such studies focuses mainly on the hearer’s negative reactions (among others (Hay, 1994; Hay, 2001; Eisterhold et al., 2006; Attardo, 2002; Bell, 2009)), or on the hearer’s failure to support the speaker’s humor. For example, according to (Bell, 2015) who applies Hay’s model of humor support (2001) to failed humor, i.e. humor not supported, the 5 reasons that may lead to a failure of humor are a lack of recognition, understanding, appreciation, agreement and/or engagement from the hearer. More recently, focusing on the humor production and not perception, Priego-Valverde (Priego-Valverde, 2019; Priego-Valverde, 2020) analyzed failed humor produced by the participant who is in the position of hearer. The way that conversational constraints weight on on humor production is highlighted.

## 5.3. Laughter and smiling as multimodal markers of humor in conversation

Links between laughter and humor have been regularly mentioned since the seventies in Conversation Analysis. Considered a marker of humor (Sacks, 1974) laughter was studied by (Jefferson, 1979) as a device in conversation used by the speaker to show his/her humorous intention. In line with such studies, laughter has even been considered “the contextualization cue for humor par excellence” (Kotthoff, 2000), and its absence has been seen as a mark of failure of humor (Norrick, 1993). However, the relationship between laughter and humor is more than questionable. Firstly, humor does not necessarily trigger laughter and laughter is not always provoked by humor (Attardo, 1994; Foot, 2017; Morreall, 2001; Priego-Valverde, 2003). Secondly, it has been shown that not only does the lack of laughter not necessarily mean that humor has failed, but it can also be seen as a support strategy (Hay, 2001).

More recently, studies on smiling and humor have begun to appear. The most significant have been conducted in computer-mediated conversations. In (Attardo et al., 2013), for example, smiling synchronicity was studied in relation with the presence or absence of humor, hypothesizing on the function of “framing” of smiling. This hypothesis was deepened by (Gironzetti et al., 2016) adding the role of the synchronicity of smiling between participants. This “framing” role of the synchronicity of smiling has also been highlighted in French face-to-face conversations (Priego-Valverde, 2017; Priego-Valverde and Bigi, 2016). In (Gironzetti et al., 2019), the role of smiling and smiling synchronicity, as a discourse marker has been also investigated. They show that, even if smiling is present in the whole conversation, its intensity is higher during humor productions. Thus, the authors hypothesize that an increase in smiling intensity is a more significant way to frame an exchange as humorous than the sole presence of smiling.

In line with these previous studies, the present exploratory study investigates the links between smiling and humor. Two questions will be asked: (1) Is smiling a marker of humor? (2) Does smiling diminish the risk that humor will fail? In order to provide potential answers to these questions, methodological decisions have been made:

- Smiling was isolated from other facial behaviors such as neutral face and laughter, using the SIS;

- When a humorous item included at least one occurrence of smiling, and even associated with other facial behavior, it was analyzed as smiling;

- Humorous productions were analyzed in two ways: Firstly, in order to present a general picture of the two interactions analyzed, the total duration of the humorous productions in the entirety of the interactions was calculated based on the humorous sequences extracted. These sequences include the humorous items produced by the speakers and the hearers’ reactions. In each interaction, the two first humorous sequences were excluded because they correspond to the canned joke that the participants had to read to each other, and not to conversational humor as freely appearing in any conversation. Secondly, for the rest of the analysis focusing on humorous productions (and not reactions to these), only the humorous items included in each humorous sequence were studied.

## 5.4. General overview of the data

### 5.4.1. Duration of the humorous productions

Based on this methodology, the total duration of humorous productions was calculated comparing the duration of the humorous sequences with the duration of the non-humorous sequences: 2.6 min in MA_PC (for a total interaction lasting 17.4 min) and 7.03 min in in JS_CL (for a total interaction lasting 16.5 min). Such a high difference between the two interactions can be explained by two factors: a gender effect (MA_PC is a mixed dyad while JS_CL are two women), and the conversational topics developed (in MA_PC, they spend a long time talking about their future exams).

### 5.4.2. Frequency of the humorous items

The frequency of the humorous items produced by each participant was then calculated (Table 2).

Here again, high inter-individual differences appear, especially between MA and CL. MA is the lesser prolific participant. He is also the only man and the participant who, because he is a good student, advises PC on the way she has to study. Thus, the two same factors than showed above could explain this difference.
