[Figure: Bar chart showing percentage of failed humorous items produced with and without smile. X-axis labels: MA, PC, JS, CL. Legend: Neutral, Smile, Laughter. Values shown include MA 25% Neutral, 50% Smile, 25% Laughter; PC 8% Neutral, 92% Smile, 0% Laughter; JS 0% Neutral, 86% Smile, 14% Laughter; CL 20% Neutral, 80% Smile, 0% Laughter.]

Figure 10: Percentage of failed humorous items produced with and without smile

But they do not show that smiling reduces the risk for humor to fail.

Finally, the mean smiling intensity displayed both in failed and successful humorous items has been calculated.

[Figure: Bar chart showing mean smiling intensity displayed during failed and successful humor. X-axis labels: MA, PC, JS, CL. Legend: Mean_Fahumor and Mean_Suhumor. Values shown include MA 2,5 and 2,03; PC 1,81 and 2,45; JS 1,8 and 2,3; CL 0,8 and 2,2.]

Figure 11: Mean smiling intensity displayed during failed (Fa) and successful (Su) humor

Figure 11 shows that three participants display a higher mean smiling intensity during successful humor. However, MA’s one is lower during successful humor than failed humor. MA being the only male participant, this difference could be explained by a gender effect.  
When comparing figures 9 and 11, the results show that, with successful humor, most of the participants display more smiles than other non-verbal behaviors with also a higher mean intensity than with failed humor, except for MA.  
When comparing figures 10 and 11, the results show that, with failed humor, most of the participants display also more smiles than other facial behaviors, but with a lower mean intensity than with successful humor, except for MA. Such results show that mean smiling intensity seems to be a more robust criterion than the sole presence or absence of smile to evaluate the impact of smiling on the success or failure of humor. However, based on only four participants including one exception (MA), such a result cannot be more precise.  
When comparing Figure 6 and 11, the results show that all the participants whether they produce failed or successful humor, display a higher mean smiling intensity during humorous items than during non-humorous sequences. This result tends to show that mean smiling intensity works also as a marker of humor.

Finally, CL’s very low mean smiling intensity with failed humor diminishes a lot her mean smiling intensity during humor. It could explain why she displays the same smiling intensity whether or not she produces humor (see Figure 6).

## 6. Discussion

The methodology used to annotate both failed and successful humor has already been used on another corpus (Priego-Valverde, 2020). It is thus replicable. The methodology used for annotating smiling through its different degrees of intensities has also been used in previous studies on humor in American English (Attardo et al., 2013; Gironzetti et al., 2016; Gironzetti et al., 2019), on humor in French (Priego-Valverde and Bigi, 2016; Priego-Valverde, 2017), and on studies about topic transitions in French conversations (Amoyal and Priego-Valverde, 2019). More recently, this methodology made it possible to conduct research on automatic detection of smiles (Rauzy & Amoyal, submit). Moreover, investigating smiling behavior with the “Smiling Intensity Scale” (Gironzetti et al., 2016) describing smile according to 5 levels of intensities is particularly relevant not only to distinguish smiling from other non-verbal behaviors such as the neutral face and laughter, but also to go beyond the binary analysis of smiling in terms of presence vs. absence.  
This study provides some clues about the role of smiling as a maker of humor. First, smiling is the most frequent facial behavior used in humor. It is used more than neutral face and more than laughter. Considering that the links between laughter and humor have been much more thoroughly investigated, the role of smiling in humor could have been underestimated by previous studies. The second result concerns the mean smiling intensity which is higher in humorous sequences than in non-humorous sequences. This result is consistent with previous studies (see section 1.3). In other words, both the presence and the mean smiling intensity seem to be a marker of humor.  
Focusing on whether or not smiling diminishes the risk for humor to fail, the results are less meaningful. On the one hand, smiling is the most present facial behavior both in successful and in failed humor. Thus, it does not seem to reduce the risk of failure. On the other hand, mean smiling intensity is higher in successful humor than in failed humor. This result could indicate that mean smiling intensity has a larger impact of the success or failure of humor than the simple presence of smiling. However, such a result cannot be considered meaningful either because, this only holds for three participants. The fourth participant actually displayed a higher mean smiling intensity during failed humor. One exception among only four participants represents too large of an uncertainty to draw any clear conclusion about the impact of mean smiling intensity on the success or failure of humor.

## 7. Conclusion

This paper presents the Cheese! corpus consisting of a set of 11 face-to-face interactions. Five of these interactions are already largely annotated with enriched orthographic transcription, time-aligned phonemes, syllables, words, part-of-speech, etc. A first observation concerns the restricted
