represents anything that people say or do that others perceive as funny and tends to make them laugh, as well as the mental processes that go into both creating and perceiving such an amusing stimulus, and also the emotional response of mirth involved in the enjoyment of it.” Computational humor modeling, in other words, refers to any type of task that involves using input data to perform a task related to humor detection, generation, translation, evaluation, and so on, using AI methods.

Although computational humor research sprouted in the 1990’s [12], it has mainly focused on text data until 2019 [96]. Therefore, we will not only discuss state-of-the-art text-based methods, but also study advancements in multimodal approaches. Due to the rapid pace at which the field of AI is evolving, we will focus on manuscripts that were published since 2022. Regarding dataset and shared task papers, however, we will discuss work that is up to 5 years old (from January 2020), since the resources presented in such papers are typically still frequently utilized in today’s research.

## 1.2 Related Research and Our Contributions

To our knowledge, four long format survey papers<sup>1</sup> about computational humor have been published since 2020. First, Amin and Burghardt [4] focus on humor generation research from the 1990’s until 2020. Their main takeaways are that, first of all, there is a **lack of thorough (automatic) evaluation metrics** to determine how well humor models actually grasp the concept of humor. Secondly, they argue that future humor generation systems should focus on **combining insights from both NLP/AI and psychology**, in order to integrate cognitive theories of humor into AI systems. Winters [129], who discusses both humor generation and detection papers, confirms these two gaps, and adds that the bulk of humor research until **2021 has focused on English jokes only**, which is problematic since perceptions and verbalizations of humor vary between cultures and languages. In addition, Cowie [31] observes that in recent years, more research has focused on **multimodal humor tasks**, which poses additional challenges compared to unimodal tasks, and should therefore be the focus of future work. Finally, and in contrast to the previous surveys, Kalloniatis and Adamidis [63] studied feature engineering for the task of humor detection, and reviewed 21 different features utilized in papers published between the 1990’s and 2022. They showed that **ambiguity**—inspired by cognitive theories of humor—was the most commonly used feature, but highlighted that it is particularly difficult to quantify this feature.

Our work contributes to existing research in three ways. First, it provides an overview and classification of the most recent computational humor research, while providing detailed insights into the technical aspects and the influence of recent trends in AI research. Secondly, our scope is broader than existing overview papers, since a wide variety of humor related tasks (generation, detection, evaluation, translation) and data modalities (text, audio, image/video) are included in this paper in order to suggest relevant future research directions. Note, however, that we exclude papers tailored specifically towards irony and sarcasm from this work. Since the amount of work done regarding this topic is so large, and irony per definition is not always used with the intention of producing humor, but rather negative sentiment, we believe that it is deserving of its own literature study. Thirdly, the takeaways presented in the aforementioned survey papers will be discussed in the conclusion, and it will be clarified to what extent they are still relevant to future work.

## 1.3 Overview

Section 2 presents our methodology, i.e., how relevant work was collected and filtered. Then, datasets and shared tasks are discussed in Sections 3 and 4, respectively. Furthermore, recent computational

---

<sup>1</sup>Although [94] is also presented as a survey paper, we do not treat it as such, since its main contribution is to present a dataset, instead of providing a literature overview.
