[Figure: Decision tree for paper inclusion. Top box asks whether the paper is related to computational humor modeling, not specifically focused on sarcasm/irony, and recently published. Branches lead through questions about peer review, shared task submissions, public code/dataset availability, novel experiments, patents, overview papers, and shared task winners, ending in Include or Exclude.]

Fig. 1. Decision tree used to determine whether to include a paper in this survey or not.

humor that occurs in the context of an act or *performance*. Examples of this type of humor are jokes in sitcoms, movies, books, sketches, or stand-up comedy. In terms of spontaneity, performance humor is located on the opposite end of the spectrum compared to conversational humor, since it is by definition well prepared and practiced before it is performed. Therefore, sitcom data that has been described as *conversational humor* in dataset papers will be considered as performance humor, since sitcom conversations are not spontaneous or natural.

### 3.1 Jokes

The largest portion of humor datasets that have been published in the last 5 years contain jokes (26 out of 39 datasets, as shown in Tables 2 and 3). Although the bulk of the available joke datasets present human-written data, Horvitz et al. [52] use LLMs to generate *unfunny jokes*. The authors argue that humor detection models trained on jokes as positive data and non-humorous data from other genres as negative data show suboptimal generalization capabilities across datasets and tasks. Hence, they use LLMs to generate jokes that are not funny, but capture the same form as jokes, in order to arrive at parallel data. For example, consider the following satirical punchline and its unfunny counterpart, which has a similar structure: “Study links meat, sugar consumption to early death *among those who choose to be happy in life*” vs. “*among those with unhealthy lifestyles*”. The authors, however, do not provide a direct comparison between models fine-tuned on parallel and non-parallel data for humor detection, so although this approach has been theoretically justified, the exact benefits have not been shown empirically.

In other work, Horvitz et al. [52] and Hessel et al. [51] present datasets of satirical news headlines and news related cartoons, respectively. These are examples of how **news data** can be mined to create joke datasets. Another frequent source for joke datasets is **social media**. For example, Weller et al. [127] scraped Reddit jokes using distant supervision by mining the r/Jokes subreddit, whereas Maronikolakis et al. [86] and Bellamkonda et al. [10] leverage X (formerly known as Twitter) data to construct joke datasets. A particularly fruitful source of jokes on social media that has been used frequently in recent years are **memes**.<sup>3</sup> Merriam Webster<sup>4</sup> defines a meme as follows: “an amusing

<sup>3</sup>Note that many meme datasets focus on offensiveness detection in memes. We decided not to include these in our overview; only datasets focusing on humor in memes were studied.  
<sup>4</sup>https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/meme [last accessed October 2025].
