by ChatGPT, and claim that over 90% of the 1008 generated jokes were the same 25 specific jokes. The prompt that was used however, “Tell me a joke, please!”, was not optimized for diversity, which emphasizes the importance of adequate prompt design in zero-shot joke generation. Compared to the previous work, which explored both zero-shot and few-shot (RAG) experiments, Li et al. [76] explored LLM fine-tuning for Chinese dialogue comedy. Interestingly, they show that fine-tuning GPT-3 [17] for this task does not improve performance. In short, **recent work on humor generation with LLMs presents rather negative conclusions.**

*Hybrid models.* Three hybrid approaches could be identified, which exploit both pre-trained language models and top-down heuristics or manually crafted resources. First, Tian et al. [118] propose a hybrid approach for puns generated based on homographs and homophones. The task consists of generating a pun, given a word pair consisting of a pun word and a target word. For instance, given the word pair *soled-sold*, where the pun word is *soled* and the target word is *sold*, a potential pun could be “The leather boots he was wearing were heavily abraded, and were *soled* at the store at half price.” Similarly to the AmbiPun model described above, this approach leverages linguistic ambiguity and heuristics to create puns by first retrieving a number of prototypical phrases for the target word, while ranking them according to semantic relevance to the pun word. In contrast to AmbiPun, which uses a reverse dictionary to obtain context words, Tian et al. [118] use a **Masked Language Modeling (MLM)** task to retrieve phrases containing the pun word and rank them according to both typicality and surprise. The middle-ranked phrase is then used for candidate pun generation to avoid it being too general or incompatible with the target word. A fine-tuned T5 model is used to generate such candidate pun phrases, and BERT-based classifier is used to rank the phrases and provide the final output decision.

In other work, Toplyn [122] developed the third version of a system named “Witscript” (original version is presented in Toplyn [121]), a system for generating humoristic punchlines based on a provided set-up. The original Witscript model first extracts nouns, noun phrases and named entities from said set-up line. Then, using Word2Vec, it is determined which of these two words or phrases are the least likely to co-occur in order to create a surprising effect. These key words/phrases are then used as *topic words*. Next, Word2Vec is used to generate 50 associations for both topic words. Afterward, three types of puns are generated: a juxtaposition, a word phrase in which a word has been substituted, and a word in which a syllable has been replaced to create a humorous effect (portmanteaux). Then, a wordplay score based on linguistic features is assigned to each pun as a form of evaluation; the pun with the highest word play score is selected, and an angle is generated with a fine-tuned BERT model to connect the input sentence and the generated pun. In the third version, a large part of the heuristics were replaced by GPT.

Finally, the third hybrid approach we identified is “PunIntended” [135], a **Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)** for pun generation inspired by the surprise-disambiguation humor theory. The GAN consists of a discriminator (BERT-large-uncased) and a generator (T5). The generator produces a pun by exploiting a pruned semantic tree of an input sentence obtained through WordNet and Stanza constituency parser. The discriminator, on the other hand, evaluates the puns produced by the generator. It was fine-tuned for the task of distinguishing between correct and incorrect interpretations of a pun using contrastive loss. For this task, artificially generated explanations were used as incorrect, negative samples, and correct explanations from an existing pun dataset were used as positive examples. To evaluate the GAN, puns were generated based on the ExPunations dataset [115]. The results show that this method outperforms a number of pun generation baselines, including both zero-shot LLMs and fine-tuned transformers.

5.2.2 *Multimodal Approaches.* We identified three multimodal generative humor approaches. First, Wang and Lee [125] present MemeCraft, a creative meme generator based on LLMs and
