[31] Roddy Cowie. 2023. Computational research and the case for taking humor seriously. *HUMOR* 36, 2 (2023), 207–223. DOI : https://doi.org/doi:10.1515/humor-2023-0021

[32] Victor De Marez, Thomas Winters, and Ayla Rigouts Terryn. 2024. THInC: A theory-driven framework for computational humor detection. In *Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Creativity (CREAI 2024).* CEUR-WS, Santiago De Compostella, Spain. Retrieved from https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3810/paper10.pdf

[33] Boya Deng, Jiayin Tian, and Hao Li. 2022. Transformer-based multimodal contextual co-encoding for humour detection. In *Proceedings of the 2022 International Conference on Culture-Oriented Science and Technology (CoST).* 292–297. DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/CoST57098.2022.00067

[34] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers).* Jill Burstein, Christy Doran, and Thamar Solorio (Eds.), Association for Computational Linguistics, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 4171–4186. DOI : https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N19-1423

[35] Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai, Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias Minderer, Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, Jakob Uszkoreit, and Neil Houlsby. 2020. An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale. 22 pages. arXiv:2010.11929. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.11929

[36] Liana Ermakova, Anne-Gwenn Bosser, Adam Jatowt, and Tristan Miller. 2023. The JOKER corpus: English-french parallel data for multilingual wordplay recognition. In *Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR’23).* Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2796–2806. DOI : https://doi.org/10.1145/3539618.3591885

[37] Liana Ermakova, Anne-Gwenn Bosser, Tristan Miller, and Adam Jatowt. 2024. Overview of the CLEF 2024 JOKER task 1: Humour-aware information retrieval. In *CEUR Workshop Proceedings.*

[38] Liana Ermakova, Anne-Gwenn Bosser, Tristan Miller, and Adam Jatowt. 2024. Overview of the CLEF 2024 JOKER Task 3: Translate puns from english to french. In *CEUR Workshop Proceedings.*

[39] Florian Eyben, Martin Wöllmer, and Björn Schuller. 2010. Opensmile: The munich versatile and fast open-source audio feature extractor. In *Proceedings of the 18th ACM International Conference on Multimedia (MM’10).* Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1459–1462. DOI : https://doi.org/10.1145/1873951.1874246

[40] Neamul Islam Fahim, Rifah Khan, Sujana Rahman, Nusrat Akter, and Mohammad Nurul Huda. 2024. Humor detection using machine learning approach. In *Proceedings of the 2024 6th International Conference on Electrical Engineering and Information and Communication Technology (ICEEICT).* 1217–1222. DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/ICEEICT62016.2024.10534417

[41] Mayank Goel, Parameswari Krishnamurthy, and Radhika Mamidi. 2024. Automating humor: A novel approach to joke generation using template extraction and infilling. In *Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Natural Language Processing (ICON).* Sobha Lalitha Devi and Karunesh Arora (Eds.), NLP Association of India (NLPAI), AU-KBC Research Centre, Chennai, India, 442–448. Retrieved from https://aclanthology.org/2024.icon-1.51/

[42] Drew Gorenz and Norbert Schwarz. 2024. How funny is ChatGPT? A comparison of human- and A.I.-produced jokes. *PLOS ONE* 19, 7 (2024), 1–13.

[43] Karish Grover and Tanishq Goel. 2021. HAHA@IberLEF2021: Humor analysis using ensembles of simple transformers. In *Proceedings of the IberLEF@ SEPLN.* 883–890.

[44] Ken Gu and Akshay Budhkar. 2021. A package for learning on tabular and text data with transformers. In *Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Multimodal Artificial Intelligence.* Amir Zadeh, Louis-Philippe Morency, Paul Pu Liang, Candace Ross, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Soujanya Poria, Erik Cambria, and Kelly Shi (Eds.), ACL, Mexico City, Mexico, 69–73. DOI : https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.maiworkshop-1.10

[45] Hongyu Guo, Wenbo Shang, Xueyao Zhang, Shubo Zhang, Xu Han, and Binyang Li. 2024. MUCH: A multimodal corpus construction for conversational humor recognition based on chinese sitcom. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024).* Nicoletta Calzolari, Min-Yen Kan, Veronique Hoste, Alessandro Lenci, Sakriani Sakti, and Nianwen Xue (Eds.), ELRA and ICCL, Torino, Italia, 11692–11698. Retrieved from https://aclanthology.org/2024.lrec-main.1021

[46] Luis Fabricio Góes, Piotr Sawicki, Marek Grzes, Dan Brown, and Marco Volpe. 2023. Is GPT-4 good enough to evaluate jokes? University of Leicester. Retrieved from https://figshare.le.ac.uk/articles/conference_contribution/Is_GPT-4_Good_Enough_to_Evaluate_Jokes_/24324415

[47] Md Kamrul Hasan, Wasifur Rahman, AmirAli Bagher Zadeh, Jianyuan Zhong, Md Iftekhar Tanveer, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Mohammed (Ehsan) Hoque. 2019. UR-FUNNY: A multimodal language dataset for understanding humor. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP).* Kentaro Inui, Jing Jiang, Vincent Ng, and Xiaojun Wan (Eds.), ACL, Hong Kong, China, 2046–2056. DOI : https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D19-1211
