it can be observed that all but one shared task exclusively used text data (social media messages specifically). On the other hand, there is a positive evolution towards more frequent research in non-English languages, which is a trend that is also visible in recently published datasets, as discussed in Section 3. Furthermore, a positive evolution towards **accounting for cultural and personal preferences in humor** can be observed in the HaHackathon shared task. Since humor is highly subjective, such setups should be considered best practice in future work.

## 5 Computational Models of Humor

In the current section, noteworthy trends and advancements in studies on computational humor models published since 2022 are described. We distinguish between models for humor detection and humor generation. Overviews of the former can be found in Tables 5 and 6, which contain unimodal and multimodal detection models, respectively. An overview of humor generation models can be found in Table 7. The models are categorized by their type of architecture (rule-based, data-driven, or hybrid). In addition, it is mentioned which architecture they are based on (if data-driven techniques are used), which language(s) and modality/-ies they are trained on, what type of humor they specialize in (jokes, conversational humor, performance humor), whether they are based on a humor theory (and which), and how they are evaluated. Note that models that were designed in the context of a shared task are discussed in Section 4, and that baseline models presented in dataset papers are also excluded from these overviews.

### 5.1 Humor Detection

#### 5.1.1 *Unimodal Humor Models.*

As mentioned in the introduction, earlier computational humor models focused virtually exclusively on text data. We observe that today, most humor detection approaches still focus on text data, as 18 out of 25 identified models were designed for text only. In addition, we detect that all approaches but one are data-driven. However, **no particular trends in the types of data-driven models that were utilized could be observed:** In spite of their popularity, not only generative LLMs, but also smaller (fine-tuned) language models, older neural methods, and statistical methods have been used in recent years. Below, we briefly discuss how well these different approaches perform on various humor detection tasks and how relevant older methods still are today.

*Pre-trained language models.* Jentzsch and Kersting [60] investigate the humor detection capabilities of ChatGPT [98]. More specifically, it was investigated whether the model could be misled by non-jokes which had similar structures to actual jokes. The results, however, indicated that the model could not be misled by joke-like texts that were not humorous. In similar work, Xu et al. [132] perform pun detection with LLMs, but explore a wider variety of models and prompts. The results indicated that with a basic prompt, the prediction consistency was low, especially for non-puns, which were confusing to the models due to their pun-like structure. However, adding a definition and examples of puns to the prompt substantially improved results. These results highlight the importance of adequate prompt engineering in humor detection tasks, which is necessary to tweak how the model defines humor.

Regarding encoder-decoder models, Arora et al. [7] explore a BERT-based transfer learning approach for detecting humor with different joke genres. They propose a *shared-private* multitask approach based on Liu et al. [82], consisting of frozen BERT layers pre-trained on different humor types (shared feature space) and one BERT layer dedicated to a specific joke genre (private feature space). The authors report that the proposed approach outperforms existing humor detection models and a BERT baseline on 2 out of the 4 utilized datasets. Furthermore, Ao et al. [6] leverage BERTweet to detect political parody in social media. Specifically, they design a multi-encoder
