based on manually engineered features. The results showed the ensemble’s effectiveness in humor detection, and an ablation study provided insights into which engineered humor theory contributed the most to the model’s performance; the relief theory. Nevertheless, a BERT baseline outperformed the proposed approach.

*5.1.2 Multimodal Humor Models.* In contrast to unimodal models, we observe that all multimodal approaches except one use pre-trained language models for text processing. Deng et al. [33] use GloVe embeddings with bidirectional LSTM layers instead of a pre-trained transformer as the textual component in a fusion model for humor detection in the UR-FUNNY dataset [47]. The techniques used for other modalities, such as image and audio processing, are dependent on the specific task and available data. For instance, Alnajjar et al. [3] describe a system to detection humor and its intensity based on text and audio data. Specifically, they use laughing track data and transcriptions of the TV show “Friends” to predict when and how long the laughing track in unseen excerpts occur. To obtain text and audio representations, BERT and HuBERT [55] are used, respectively, and combined in a neural network which initially applies pooling to both representations, concatenates them, and applies dropout before sending the output to a final fully connected layer. Results show that the model is accurate in 78% of the cases, with a mean absolute error of 600 milliseconds.

In other work, models combining text and image data that perform a wide variety of humor detection tasks have been presented. Similarly to Alnajjar et al. [3] described above, Kuznetsova and Strapparava [74] present a model for laughter detection, but focus on text and vision data, rather than text and audio, and apply this task to stand-up comedy, instead of sitcoms. To perform the task, an SVM and a FFNN are used. To extract features, BERT-based embeddings (for the text data), and VideoMAE [120] (for the visual data) were used. Both unimodal and multimodal experiments were conducted, and the results indicate that visual data is more informative than textual data, as the models based on text only yield considerably lower results. Furthermore, Koutlis et al. [70] present MemeTector for detecting humor in memes. The model consists of the existing ViT model [35] enriched with an attention module. In addition, TextFuseNet is used to extract text boundaries from the image [134]. Experiments show that the proposed approach outperforms the original ViT model and other existing approaches, such as ResNet [48]. In related work, Tanaka et al. [117] hypothesized that memes are characterized by an incongruity between the image and the caption, and that such incongruity could be detected by subtracting the feature vectors of the image with the feature vectors of the caption. Experiments with CLIP [105] indicate improvements over baselines, but make clear that the task is still challenging, since accuracy scores do not exceed 60%.

Furthermore, Hessel et al. [51] tackle tasks related to funny cartoon captions. The first task, matching, consists of selecting the appropriate caption from a list of five, given a cartoon image. The authors report zero-shot and few-shot results with GPT (3, 3.5, 4), and propose fine-tuned models with T5, CLIP, and OFA [126]. In the end, few-shot GPT-4 yielded the highest performance with an accuracy of 85%, compared to a human upper bound of 94%. The second task comprises predicting which of two presented captions was rated the highest. The same models were utilized for this task as for task 1, and similarly to that task, few-shot GPT-4 yielded highest accuracy (73% compared to a human performance of 87%). In sum, more recent GPT models have shown improvements in humor detection, but still perform subpar compared to humans.

Finally, humor models that process all three modalities—text, audio, and vision—primarily comprise performance humor systems. For instance, Chauhan et al. [21] use the M2H2 dataset, described in Section 3, for multimodal, multilingual, and emotion-aware humor recognition in sitcoms. Concretely, their method utilizes a humor prediction component which consists of a transformer block. Then, a sentiment vector and emotion vector, each obtained from the output of two separate linear layers, are concatenated and multiplied with the output of the linear layer of the humor component
