**annotator information should be reported by default in future work:** demographic info (e.g., age, gender, and language proficiency), logistic info (e.g., number of annotators, how they were recruited and rewarded), and training info (annotator guidelines, training examples, agreement, etc.). Also mindful of the subjective nature of humor, Meaney [89] designed not one but two binary labeling tasks, where the distinction between perceived humor and intended humor is made in order to account for **annotator opinions** (as mentioned in Section 4). In addition, they also ask the annotators to rate offensiveness in jokes to anticipate **personal sensitivities**. Finally, the authors did not only ensure that each training instance was annotated by multiple annotators from different age groups (in order to avoid bias as a result of the variable age), but also ensured that the annotators had cultural background as the writers of the texts (USA). They argued that this setup minimizes the number of misinterpretations during annotation that are the result of a gap in the background knowledge of the annotator.

### 6.2 Generation

To evaluate generative humor models, **both human and automatic methods have been used in previous work.** Human evaluation, on the one hand, can include evaluation by means of comparison, such as in A/B testing (e.g., [26]), or by calculating binary success rate, i.e., the ratio of times the humor generator successfully completed a specific task (e.g., [96]). On the other hand, manual evaluation can involve a qualitative analysis (e.g., [60]), or assigning a score to fine-grained aspects of humor. Examples of said aspects we found in this survey are the following: funniness [23, 25, 42, 76, 96, 119, 125], creativity/originality/authenticity [25, 119, 125], ambiguity [118], offensiveness [119], persuasiveness [125], coherence [76, 96], relevance/informativeness [25, 125], an overall score [76, 122], and a Creativity Support Index [93].

While human evaluators can provide the most nuanced feedback, they are subject to personal and cultural preferences. This means that many annotators from balanced demographic groups must be included to provide representative evaluations, which is not only expensive, but also challenging from a logistic perspective. Zeng et al. [135] take a radical stance in this issue and propose to use only automatic evaluation for humor generation tasks. Specifically, they use ambiguity and distinctiveness. The former is based on Kao et al. [64], who use ambiguity as a proxy for humor, and quantify this concept by computing the entropy of the joint probability distribution of sentence meanings. Higher entropy therefore signifies more ambiguity and therefore humor. Distinctiveness, on the other hand, comprises lexical diversity between generated outputs based on unigrams and bigrams (Dist-1 and Dist-2, respectively). While claiming that automatic methods provide objective scoring, however, they also mention that ambiguity may not always reflect pun quality, and that distinctiveness overlooks aspects such as coherence and semantics. Therefore, the authors conclude that “these metrics alone do not intuitively capture the characteristics of the pun generation task” [135] (p. 2125).

Another method includes utilizing humor detection or rating models for automatic evaluation. Góes et al. [46], for instance, explore the humor evaluation capabilities of GPT-4. They show, however, that there is only a weak correlation between the judgments of GPT-4 and human evaluators. The aforementioned results indicate that in spite of their speed, scalability, and low cost, automatic evaluation methods are not necessarily accurate alternatives that reflect human judgment, which is also an issue in other NLG (or seq2seq) tasks, such as machine translation, text summarization, dialogue completion, and so on. Regardless of the advantages and disadvantages of both human and automatic evaluation, it is apparent that for generation tasks, different papers use completely different types and combinations of evaluation metrics. In other words, there is still **no uniform evaluation framework** to evaluate humor generation models which allows for the comparison of models across research projects.
