Table 1. Keywords Used to Search for Related Work

| **Keywords** |
|---|
| humo(u)r(ous), funny, laughter, humo(u)r theory |
| joke, parody, one-liner, pun, wordplay, satire, satirical |
| stand-up, comedy, comedian, sketch, sitcom, meme |
| NLP, computational, model(ing) |
| AI, artificial intelligence |
| dataset, shared task |
| robotics, chatbots, conversational agents |
| **Large Language Model (LLM)**, GPT, neural |
| generation, recognition, detection, translation, evaluation |
| explanation, explainability, interpretability, |
| surprise, relief, incongruity |

models of humor are discussed in Section 5, where we distinguish between detection and generation models. Then, Section 6 elaborates not only on annotation but also on evaluation methods in recent work. Section 7 connects to the section on evaluation by discussing work on explainability and interpretability, providing more insights into the extent that models *understand* humor. Finally, the most important recent trends, advancements, and remaining gaps are summarized in the discussion in Section 8.

## 2 Methodology

To collect relevant work, we use (combinations of) the keywords mentioned in Table 1 to search for research papers in the following search engines: Google Scholar, Semantic Scholar, ACL anthology, ACM computing surveys, IEEE Xplore, and European Journal of Humor Research. In addition, we use backward and forward citation search for a more comprehensive collection of works.

To decide which papers that resulted from the search queries to include in this work, the decision tree presented in Figure 1 was used. In short, we include recent papers about computational humor modeling with AI systems which have been peer-reviewed. Non-peer-previewed papers were included only if the presented model is patented, or if the code/data was shared and novel experiments were presented. Regarding shared task papers, we only include overview papers or papers of winning teams.

## 3 Humor Datasets

In Tables 2 and 3, overviews of the humor datasets published between 2020–2022, and 2023–2024 are provided, respectively.[^2] In accordance with Martin and Ford [88], we distinguish three coarse-grained types of humor to classify these datasets: jokes, performance humor, and conversational humor. Jokes are defined as independent humorous statements, i.e., they are not part of a larger context window, such as a conversation, or a performance. Examples of jokes are satirical news headlines, humorous social media messages, wordplay, or funny one-liners. Conversational humor, on the other hand, comprises humor that occurs in dialogues or group conversations, typically to serve a social function, i.e., to boost the mood in the conversation and/or stimulate it to continue. Compared to jokes, in which a certain amount of preparation or thought has been put before uttering them, conversational humor is created spontaneously. Finally, performance humor is

[^2]: Note that datasets published in the context of shared tasks are described in Section 4.
