or interesting item (such as a captioned picture or video) or genre of items that is spread widely online especially through social media.” In Tanaka et al. [117], 7,500 memes were annotated by crowdworkers for binary humor classification. These memes were obtained by scraping a meme sharing website and by using an automatic meme generator. In other work [56], a dataset for captioning and interpreting memes named “MemeCap” is presented. This dataset contains more than 6,000 memes with various types of metadata, with a focus on the metaphorical mechanisms that create humor in memes. Similarly, Xu et al. [131] published MET-Meme, a multilingual meme dataset containing annotations regarding the metaphorical mechanisms behind the humor created in memes. The dataset contains more than 10,000 memes with accompanying text transcriptions, of which approximately 60% are in Chinese, and the remaining 40% are in English. The following metaphor metadata was added by annotators: a binary label, indicating whether the meme uses a metaphor, and a more fine-grained label indicating whether the metaphorical element is expressed in the text, the image, or both. Additional annotations include emotion (7 classes), intention (“entertaining”, “offensiveness”, “other”), and in the case of offensiveness, a rating of how offensive the meme is (0–4). Depending on the experimental setting, the best models yielded F1-scores of 76.0–82.4% for metaphor detection, but surprisingly low results on emotion detection (<37.0%), in spite of the high annotator agreement (Fleiss’ Kappa > 0.80).

### 3.2 Performance Humor

Memes do not only represent the social media trend in humor datasets, but also a **multimodal** trend. In contrast, earlier work on computational humor modeling focused exclusively on the textual modality (as mentioned in the introduction); Mittal et al. [96] even claimed that the first multimodal humor dataset, URFunny [47], was published only in 2019, although humor modeling has been attempted since the 1990’s (cf. JAPE [12], often referred to as the first computational humor model). Humor, however, is a multimodal phenomenon, as it does not only rely on text and semantics, but also (and in some cases exclusively) on auditive cues, such as intonation and timing, and visual cues, like gestures and mimicry. Today, this multimodal nature of humor has been acknowledged in the state-of-the-art, since 20 out of 39 datasets included in Tables 2 and 3 are multimodal. The bulk of these multimodal datasets (11) contain performance humor, specifically **sitcoms**. The MHD and Laughing Machine datasets [66, 100], for instance, present transcriptions and video data of the American sitcom “The Big Bang Theory”, whereas the MUMOR dataset [130] contains dialogues from “Friends”. Similarly, Pamulapati and Mamidi [99] and Guo et al. [45] present data from Telugu and Chinese sitcoms, respectively. Chauhan et al. [22] and Kumar et al. [71], on the other hand, focus on collecting sitcom data in Hindi.

Next to sitcoms, other multimodal performance humor datasets we found focus on **stand-up comedy**. Turano and Strapparava [124] present “SCRIPTS”, a dataset containing 90 stand-up comedy transcripts from 68 comedians. Similarly, Kuznetsova and Strapparava [74] collect a multimodal corpus of Russian and English stand-up comedy. In total, this dataset contains 37 hours of video material scraped from YouTube, with accompanying text transcriptions. In other work, Mittal et al. [95] publish a multimodal dataset containing over 40 hours of annotated open mic clips. Finally, Li et al. [76] present a dataset of Chinese crosstalk transcripts; a traditional form of comedy dialogues.

### 3.3 Conversational Humor

Finally, the type of humor that is included the least frequently in recent humor datasets is conversational humor (2 of the 39 datasets). First, Priego-Valverde et al. [104] present a conversational humor dataset named “Cheese!”, which consists of audio and video recordings of 11 human-human interactions in French that each last approximately 15 minutes. In other work, Chen et al. [27] present “TalkFunny!”, a Chinese dataset containing dialogue utterance transcriptions and funny
