in computational humor research. As it is the goal of NLP research to make language models more human-like, it should be investigated how they can effectively generate humor in conversations in order to mimic human spontaneity and creativity. Combined with the aforementioned issues regarding evaluation, we argue that future work should focus on extrinsic evaluation of humor generation in conversations in order to tackle both issues at the same time.

### 8.3 WEIRD Problem

Winters [129] mentioned that most computational humor research is conducted for the English language, although humor verbalizations and perceptions vary between cultures and languages. This problem can be extended to the fact that most empirical data in research in general comes from Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich, and Democratic areas [109]. This is known as the **WEIRD** problem, and can also be observed in existing humor corpora, as most contain English data or other Western Languages, such as French [104] and Portuguese [99]. In more recent humor datasets, however, we observe a trend towards a more frequent presentation of non-Western language data. Specifically, all 11 identified humor datasets published in 2024 contain at least 1 non-English language, indicating a positive evolution towards more diversity in the data utilized in computational humor research.

### 8.4 Pre-trained Language Models

For humor generation, all systems described in this paper utilized pre-trained language models. Although LLMs still do not match human performance when it comes to humor generation, there seems to be a consensus that LLMs are currently state-of-the-art in humor generation and outperform earlier methods with a large margin. As shown in the methods that were discussed in this survey, an important consideration to make is the design of the prompt. While it has been shown that complex CoT prompting leads to promising results, studies have also reported negative results using simple prompting strategies, which highlights the fact that LLM performance is very prompt dependent. Nevertheless, due to the aforementioned issues with evaluation, mixed results have been reported.

In spite of the successes of LLMs, and in contrast to humor generation systems, no specific trends could be observed in recent humor detection systems, meaning that they rely on a variety of different approaches: not only pre-trained language models, but also older neural approaches, statistical methods, and hybrid systems that involve manually crafted rules or resources. We found that for specific tasks, such methods can achieve comparable performance to state-of-the-art pre-trained language models, while providing more insights into humor mechanisms and humor theories. Future work in humor detection should therefore focus on comparing the usefulness of these different systems humor detection tasks and exploring the validity of existing humor theories in order to clarify the relevance of older methods in this era of LLMs.

### 8.5 Interpretability and Explainability

Interpretability and explainability in humor systems can occur in two directions: existing humor knowledge being implemented in humor systems (direction *from*, humor knowledge *in*), and working humor systems that contribute towards humor knowledge (direction *to*, humor knowledge *out*). The direction *from*, integrating known humor principles, often leads to models with higher interpretability but lower accuracy compared to black-box systems, or involves hybrid designs limiting full transparency. In the direction *to*, explanations and post-hoc analyses reveal models lack human depth and often rely on superficial cues, though specialized methods can encourage somewhat deeper processing aligned with human reasoning. However, the methods of the direction *to* are often unreliable, as generated explanations risk being plausible but unfaithful, while
