[48] Kaiming He, X. Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. 2016. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In *Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)*. 770–778. Retrieved from https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:206594692

[49] Pengcheng He, Xiaodong Liu, Jianfeng Gao, and Weizhu Chen. 2020. DeBERTa: Decoding-enhanced BERT with disentangled attention. 23 pages. arXiv:2006.03654. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.03654

[50] Ruiqi He, Yushu He, Longju Bai, Jiarui Liu, Zhenjie Sun, Zenghao Tang, He Wang, Hanchen Xia, and Naihao Deng. 2024. Chumor 1.0: A Truly Funny and Challenging Chinese Humor Understanding Dataset from Ruo Zhi Ba. 13 pages. arXiv:2406.12754. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12754

[51] Jack Hessel, Ana Marasovic, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? Humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*. Anna Rogers, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Naoaki Okazaki (Eds.), ACL, Toronto, Canada, 688–714. DOI: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.41

[52] Zachary Horvitz, Jingru Chen, Rahul Aditya, Harshvardhan Srivastava, Robert West, Zhou Yu, and Kathleen McKeown. 2024. Getting serious about humor: Crafting humor datasets with unfunny large language models. In *Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*. Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (Eds.), ACL, Bangkok, Thailand, 855–869. DOI: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.acl-short.76

[53] Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, and Michael Gamon. 2019. “President vows to cut <Taxes> hair”: Dataset and analysis of creative text editing for humorous headlines. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*. Jill Burstein, Christy Doran, and Thamar Solorio (Eds.), ACL, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 133–142. DOI: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N19-1012

[54] Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, Michael Gamon, and Henry Kautz. 2020. SemEval-2020 task 7: Assessing humor in edited news headlines. In *Proceedings of the 14th Workshop on Semantic Evaluation*. Aurelie Herbelot, Xiaodan Zhu, Alexis Palmer, Nathan Schneider, Jonathan May, and Ekaterina Shutova (Eds.), International Committee for Computational Linguistics, Barcelona (online), 746–758. DOI: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.semeval-1.98

[55] Wei-Ning Hsu, Benjamin Bolte, Yao-Hung Hubert Tsai, Kushal Lakhotia, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Abdelrahman Mohamed. 2021. HuBERT: Self-supervised speech representation learning by masked prediction of hidden units. *IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing* 29 (2021), 3451–3460. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2021.3122291

[56] EunJeong Hwang and Vered Shwartz. 2023. MemeCap: A dataset for captioning and interpreting memes. In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*. Houda Bouamor, Juan Pino, and Kalika Bali (Eds.), ACL, Singapore, 1433–1445. DOI: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.89

[57] Marcio Inácio and Hugo Gonçalo Oliveira. 2024. Exploring multimodal models for humor recognition in portuguese. In *Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Computational Processing of Portuguese – Vol. 1*. Pablo Gamallo, Daniela Claro, António Teixeira, Livy Real, Marcos Garcia, Hugo Gonçalo Oliveira, and Raquel Amaro (Eds.), Association for Computational Linguistics, Santiago de Compostela, Galicia/Spain, 568–574. Retrieved from https://aclanthology.org/2024.propor-1.62

[58] Marcio Inácio, Gabriela Wick-pedro, and Hugo Goncalo Oliveira. 2023. What do humor classifiers learn? An attempt to explain humor recognition models. In *Proceedings of the 7th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*. Stefania Degaetano-Ortlieb, Anna Kazantseva, Nils Reiter, and Stan Szpakowicz (Eds.), ACL, Dubrovnik, Croatia, 88–98. DOI: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.latechclfl-1.10

[59] Sarthak Jain and Byron C. Wallace. 2019. Attention is not explanation. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*. Jill Burstein, Christy Doran, and Thamar Solorio (Eds.), ACL, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 3543–3556. DOI: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N19-1357

[60] Sophie Jentzsch and Kristian Kersting. 2023. ChatGPT is fun, but it is not funny! Humor is still challenging large language models. In *Proceedings of the 13th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment, and Social Media Analysis*. Jeremy Barnes, Orphée De Clercq, and Roman Klinger (Eds.), ACL, Toronto, Canada, 325–340. DOI: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.wassa-1.29

[61] Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Teven Le Scao, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, and William El Sayed. 2023. Mistral 7B. 9 pages. arXiv:2310.06825. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06825

[62] James M. Jones. 1972. *Prejudice and Racism*. Addison-Wesley.
