VLMs (Vision Language Models). MemeCraft uses meme template images as input data. These were mined from the Meme Generator dataset,<sup>7</sup> from which all offensive memes were filtered automatically and all captions/texts were removed. Then, for each image, a neutral description for that image is generated with LLaVA-7B. Afterward, a funny caption is generated based on a prompt that includes the topic (either *gender equality* or *climate change*), a stance (*for* or *against*), and one of six persuasion techniques used to convince the reader of that stance. Finally, a multimodal bi-transformer detects whether the generated memes are hateful, as a post-production safety mechanism. To evaluate MemeCraft, human evaluators rate authenticity, funniness, how well the intended message and stance were conveyed, how persuasive the meme is, and its hatefulness. After evaluation, the authors conclude that there was mainly room for improvement in the funniness metric, while MemeCraft scores relatively well on the other aspects.

Furthermore, Chen et al. [27] design a multitask **Chain-of-Humor** approach, which involves adding humor mind maps and **Chain-of-Thought (CoT)** reasoning in the prompt to break down the thought process behind humor generation. In addition, the model is fine-tuned with two auxiliary tasks: sentiment classification and humor rewriting in order to boost the quality of the produced outputs. An evaluation on the TalkFunny dataset using various LLMs and VLMs shows that both the prompting strategies and multitask learning improve the humor generation capabilities of these models.

In similar work, [138] propose **Creative Leap-of-Thought (CLoT)** prompting as an alternative for CoT prompting for creative humor generation in the Oogiri-Go dataset, which is a Chinese humor game in which a person must reply with a funny response given a prompt (either text or image). They hypothesize that the latter is more efficient in logical problem solving, whereas the former is more appropriate for creative tasks. CLOT consists of two stages: first, associable instruction fine-tuning, during which a model learns to generate creative associations between seemingly unrelated concepts, and secondly, self-refinement, during which the model reflects and provides feedback on its own ideas to improve the final output. The proposed CLOT prompting was evaluated for various LLMs and VLMs using both human evaluations and automatic metrics, and it was shown that it is more efficient for creative generation tasks than LoT prompting.

## 6 Annotation and Evaluation

Due to the subjective nature of humor, and a lacking gold standard, two of the most foundational challenges are how to annotate humor on the one hand, and how to evaluate generative models on the other hand. In this section, we will therefore describe how existing work approaches these tasks, and what gaps remain in the state-of-the-art.

### 6.1 Detection

The evaluation of humor detection models is essentially the same as for other classification tasks: precision, recall, F1-score, and/or accuracy are used for the evaluation of both binary and multiclass classification tasks. Other metrics that are used (albeit infrequently) are **Area Under the Curve (AUC)**, **True Positive/Negative Ratio (TPR, TNR)**, cross-entropy loss, Cohen’s Kappa, and Pearson/Spearman correlation tests (for rating tasks). Regarding the collection of gold standard labels, annotators are typically asked to determine whether a series of data points are humorous or not. This can be done either in binary fashion (yes/no) or through a multiclass approach (Likert scores).

Since, as mentioned, humor is subjective, annotation tasks need to be setup carefully in order to obtain high-quality labels. Therefore, Loakman et al. [84] argue that the following types of

<sup>7</sup>https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/electron0zero/memegenerator-dataset
