# Computational Humor Modeling: A Survey on the State of the Art

JENS LEMMENS, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium  
VICTOR DE MAREZ, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium

---

AI systems are not only becoming better in solving complex reasoning challenges, but also in performing creative tasks. One of the creative tasks where AI systems still struggle to achieve human performance, however, is humor processing, for which mixed results have been reported. Therefore, the goal of this survey is to categorize recent research in computational humor modeling in order to identify current trends, advancements, and remaining gaps. The scope of this work is broader than previous survey papers, as we tackle not only text-based models, but also multimodal models, and discuss a variety of detection and generation tasks.

CCS Concepts: • **Computing methodologies → Natural language generation; Machine learning approaches; Natural language processing;**

Additional Key Words and Phrases: Humor, humor understanding, humor detection, humor generation, large language models, natural language processing, computational linguistics, computer vision, speech processing

**ACM Reference Format:**  
Jens Lemmens and Victor De Marez. 2026. Computational Humor Modeling: A Survey on the State of the Art. *ACM Comput. Surv.* 58, 7, Article 177 (January 2026), 37 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3778357

---

## 1 Introduction

### 1.1 Scope

AI systems are not only improving in tackling complex reasoning problems but also in handling creative tasks [69]. However, one area where they continue to fall short of human performance is understanding and generating humor, where progress has been inconsistent and mixed results have been reported [60, 93]. Nevertheless, humor is an essential part of human communication, since it has been observed in one form or another in virtually all cultures. In addition, processing humor requires world knowledge, semantic reasoning, and linguistic understanding, which is why it is an AI complete problem and a strong indicator of “intelligence”. Despite these challenges, computational methods can provide insights into humor theory by testing specific hypotheses and function as humor writing assistants [129].

In this survey, we will therefore describe trends, advancements and remaining gaps in recent computational humor modeling research with AI systems. We adopt the definition of humor that is presented in *The Psychology of Humor* [88] (p. 3): “Humor is a broad, multifaceted term that

---

This research received funding from *FWO IRI CLARIAH 2* and the *Flanders AI research program*.  
Authors’ Contact Information: Jens Lemmens (xorrepsonding author), University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium; e-mail: jens.lemmens@uantwerpen.be; Victor De Marez, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium; e-mail: victor.demarez@uantwerpen.be.  
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.  
© 2026 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.  
ACM 0360-0300/2026/01-ART177  
https://doi.org/10.1145/3778357
