to arrive at a sentiment and emotion-aware humor matrix. During training, two loss functions are backpropagated: binary cross entropy (obtained from sigmoid function for humor detection), and cross entropy (obtained from softmax function for sentiment and emotion classification). The presented results showed substantial gains over baseline models in all experimental settings (unilingual vs. multilingual and unimodal vs. multimodal).

In similar work, Phukan et al. [102] propose QuMIN, a quantum multi-modal data fusion model for humor detection in the M2H2 dataset. Concretely, visual, acoustic and text features are extracted with Resnet [48], OpenSMILE [39], and FastText [14], respectively, and then concatenated and sent to a DialogueRNN [85]. The resulting output is sent through an attention network, dense layers, and a **variational quantum circuit (VQC)**, before applying layer normalization and softmax. The results show that QuMIN achieves substantially better performance than existing models on M2H2.

## 5.2 Humor Generation

### 5.2.1 *Unimodal Approaches.*

*Pre-trained language models.* In contrast to recent humor detection models, **all work on unimodal humor generation we found published since 2022 uses pre-trained language models.** A first trend we observe in recent research focusing on LLMs is **zero-shot/few-shot generation of ambiguous puns.** Gorenz and Schwarz [42], for instance, designed two experiments to investigate the humor generation capabilities of ChatGPT. First, both ChatGPT and laypeople (i.e., non-professional comedy writers) were asked to respond to various types of humorous prompts. Then, ChatGPT was asked to generate satirical news headlines to create parallel data for headlines written by human professionals. Afterward, Amazon Mechanical Turk workers blindly evaluated the human and AI generated responses. From the results it could be concluded that the jokes produces by ChatGPT were at least as funny or even funnier than the human counterparts, indicating that ChatGPT grasps the concept of humor.

In other work, Mittal et al. [96] present AmbiPun, a model designed for ambiguous pun generation, of which the input consists of a target pun word and two of its sense definitions. For instance the noun “drive”, which can both mean “motivation”, and “journey in a vehicle”. The output, on the other hand, comprises a list of pun sentences, such as “a boy saving up for a car has a lot of drive”. The approach consists of the following steps: first, 5 semantically related context words are generated with GPT3 for each of the word meanings of the pun word. Then, a fine-tuned T5 model is used to generate candidate pun sentences based on the pun word, its meanings, and the context words. Finally, humor classification is performed on the generated candidate sentences to rank them and select the final output sentence. AmbiPun was later used by Sun et al. [116] as a baseline model for the task of context-situated pun generation, which involves adding a context constraint.

Although the aforementioned papers report fair results, Xu et al. [132] argue that out-of-the-box LLMs do not generate high-quality puns, since they show the tendency to clarify ambiguity, rather than creating it, for which the authors use the term *lazy pun generation*. Similarly, Chen et al. [24] design a transformer for generating pun titles for scientific abstracts, compare it to ChatGPT, and report that “automatic systems clearly underperform relative to humans” (p. 62), highlighting the mixed results reported in recent humor generation experiments with LLMs.

A second trend we observed in papers on unimodal humor generation is a focus on **using LLMs as writing assistants for performance humor**. Mirowski et al. [93], for example, perform an experiment in stand-up comedy writing assistance with professional stand-up comedians at the 2023 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, and conclude that although more than 50% of the participants enjoyed working with AI, approximately 70% disagreed with the statement that the generated output feels unique, showing that LLMs still struggle with producing original content. Jentzsch and Kersting [60] arrive at the same conclusion after performing a manual analysis on jokes generated
