responses. Although other work has claimed to present conversational humor datasets, these are to our knowledge the only datasets published since 2020 which actually contain spontaneous conversations, and not conversations that are in reality examples of performance humor, such as sitcom dialogues. Since jokes only constitute approximately 11% of our daily humor experiences, while conversational humor and performance humor cause a respective 70% and 17% of these experiences [87], **conversational humor is proportionally underrepresented** in existing humor datasets.

## 4 Shared Tasks

### 4.1 SemEval 2020 Task 7: Assessing Humor in Edited News Headlines

Task 7 of SemEval 2020 consisted of assessing humor in news headlines [54]. The participants were subjected to two subtasks: (1) estimate the funniness of an edited news headline, and (2) given two edited news headlines, predict which is funnier (or whether they are equally funny). The Humicroedit dataset was used for this shared task, consisting of approximately 5,000 news headlines that were collected from the r/Politics and r/WorldNews subreddits [53]. Three edited versions of each headline were collected by asking annotators to change one noun, verb or named entity in the headlines with another word to make them funny. For each edited headline, 5 human judges were then asked to evaluate the funniness of the headline on a Likert scale of 0–3. These ratings were then used in the first subtask for a humor rating problem, using RMSE as evaluation metric.

For task 2, the original headline and two edited versions were provided, and a model had to predict which of these three was rated the funniest. Accuracy was reported for model evaluation. The winner of both tasks used an ensemble model consisting of various pre-trained transformers, and yielded a **Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE)** and accuracy score of 0.497 and 0.674, respectively. The other participants also relied primarily on pre-trained transformers, although the 6th best ranked model for both subtasks 1 and 2 (out of 48 and 31 participating teams, respectively) used humor and sentiment lexicons for classification, indicating that rule-based methods can compete with pre-trained transformers.

### 4.2 HaHackathon@SemEval 2021 (Task 7)

The humor detection shared task “HaHackathon” of SemEval 2021, co-located with ACL, was **the first shared task to combine humor detection with offensiveness detection** [90]. In other words, this shared task was the first to deal with humor preferences and **account for personal and cultural sensitivities in humor**. Specifically, three subtasks were defined: (1) binary humor detection, (2) humor rating prediction, and (3) offensiveness rating prediction. 80% of the data was mined from X accounts based in the USA to ensure that no cultural or linguistic issues were introduced, as the annotators were also from the USA (the remaining 20% of the data consisted of Reddit posts). Since the shared task focused on personal sensitivities in humor, potentially offensive messages needed to be included in the dataset. Therefore, the data was sampled so that half of the messages contained one or more key words associated with the hate speech categories defined in Silva et al. [113]. To collect positive data, i.e., humorous messages, tweets from accounts that by definition only post content that is intended to be humorous were used, such as “@conanobrien” and “@humorous1liners”. For Reddit, posts that originated from the “r/Jokes” and “r/CleanJokes” subreddits were used. Negative data, on the other hand, was collected from X accounts that represent the targets of the offensive language mentioned above (e.g., “@BlkMentalHealth”). This strategy of collecting negative data ensured that offensive terms occurred in both humorous and non-humorous messages, and that the topics discussed in both classes were comparable to avoid topic bias in the classifiers.

In order to collect high quality labels and avoid reflections of personal subjectivity, 20 evaluators, which were equally distributed across four different age groups, were asked to provide annotations
