architecture where domain-adaptive pre-training is used to design three specialized encoders—one for sarcasm detection, one for parody detection, and one for humor detection—of which the outputs are ultimately concatenated before classification takes place. Inácio and Oliveira [57], on the other hand, follow the approach of Gu and Budhkar [44], and use a pre-trained transformer—in this case BERTimbau [114], a Brazilian-Portuguese BERT model—combined with additional feature representations to predict humor in tweets, but report that they failed to perform an extensive hyperparameter search.

Apart from humor detection, Zeng et al. [136] also develop a model to evaluate the sense of humor in social media users. In this study, *sense of humor* is measured by two criteria: one’s ability to generate humor and to appreciate humor. Based on these criteria, one of three sense of humor labels was assigned to each user: low, medium, and high. The task of sense of humor evaluation could therefore be defined as a multiclass problem. To tackle this problem, the authors propose a **social context graph (SCOG)** that consists of three components: a node representation, graph representation, and a classification component. First, the node representation component contains textual information—collections of usernames, user interactions, posts, and comments—and non-textual information, such as the number of comments, likes, or posts written by a user. These are encoded by a BERT model (textual info) and a Feed-Forward Neural Network or FFNN (for non-textual info). In a second step, a **graph neural network (GNN)** is used to learn these node representations. Then, the output is sent to the classification component which consists of two independent single-layer FFNNs (one for binary humor recognition, one for sense of humor evaluation), followed by a softmax function. The SCOG model achieved an F1-macro score of up to 62.7%, which is more than 10% higher than the best reported baseline model (RoBERTa).

*Other methods.* As mentioned above, we observed that older methodologies, such as classical machine learning methods, static word vectors, and earlier neural networks are still used frequently for certain tasks in recent humor detection literature, as explained below. The reason for this is that they are competitive with state-of-the-art pre-trained transformers, making them still relevant for humor detection. In addition, since such methods are feature-based, they have the advantage that specific theories of humor can be tested through feature engineering, making them not only competitive with LLMs, but also relevant for fundamental humor research. We therefore discuss a number of papers using these methods, and show how they contribute to automatic humor detection.

Kayastha and Redei [65] used GloVe embeddings [101] with a **Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU)** to detect humor in “That’s what she said” jokes. Precision and recall of 89.2% and 84.7% were reported, indicating strong improvements compared to the previous state-of-the-art for this task, which obtained a precision and recall of 71.4% and <20%, respectively. Similarly, Ren et al. [108] propose an LSTM network enriched with attention for humor recognition. Their approach consists of a pronunciation unit, which consists of a character-based **Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)**,[^5] a syntax unit, consisting of another CNN using part-of-speech (PoS) tag information, and a lexical unit, which uses WordNet [92] to resolve polysemy. The results show that their model performs on par with BERT for the task of pun detection (approx. 89% F1-score, depending on the experimental setting) and that it outperforms other existing neural methods. In other work, Fahim et al. [40] use an ensemble of statistical models to detect humor in a Kaggle dataset[^6] and obtain an F1-score of 93%. An ablation study showed that the SVM model contributed the most, whereas the decision tree and AdaBoost models yielded lowest individual performances. Similarly, De Marez et al. [32] designed an ensemble of various GA$^2$M models, which each represent a cognitive humor theory

[^5]: This pronunciation unit is in other words not based on audio data, but on text, which is used as a proxy for pronunciation.

[^6]: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/amaammansuri/humor-detection [last accessed March 2025].
