*Conference on Computational Linguistics*. Nicoletta Calzolari, Chu-Ren Huang, Hansaem Kim, James Pustejovsky, Leo Wanner, et al. (Eds.), International Committee on Computational Linguistics, Gyeongju, Republic of Korea, 6875–6886. Retrieved from https://aclanthology.org/2022.coling-1.598

[4] Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. 2020. A survey on approaches to computational humor generation. In *Proceedings of the 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*. Stefania DeGaetano, Anna Kazantseva, Nils Reiter, and Stan Szpakowicz (Eds.), International Committee on Computational Linguistics, 29–41. Retrieved from https://aclanthology.org/2020.latechclfl-1.4

[5] Shahin Amiriparian, Lukas Christ, Alexander Kathan, Maurice Gerczuk, Niklas Müller, Steffen Klug, Lukas Stappen, Andreas König, Erik Cambria, Björn W. Schuller, and Simone Eulitz. 2024. The muse 2024 multimodal sentiment analysis challenge: Social perception and humor recognition. In *Proceedings of the 5th on Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Challenge and Workshop: Social Perception and Humor (MuSe’24)*. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 1–9. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/3689062.3689088

[6] Xiao Ao, Danae Sanchez Villegas, Daniel Preoțiuc-Pietro, and Nikolaos Aletras. 2022. Combining humor and sarcasm for improving political parody detection. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*. Marine Carpuat, Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, and Ivan Vladimir Meza Ruiz (Eds.), ACL, Seattle, United States, 1800–1807. DOI:https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.naacl-main.131

[7] Aseem Arora, Gaël Dias, Adam Jatowt, and Asif Ekbal. 2022. Transfer learning for humor detection by twin masked yellow muppets. In *Proceedings of the 2nd Conference of the Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 12th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 2: Short Papers)*. Yulan He, Heng Ji, Sujian Li, Yang Liu, and Chua-Hui Chang (Eds.), ACL, Online only, 1–7. DOI:https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.aacl-short.1

[8] Alexei Baevski, Henry Zhou, Abdelrahman Mohamed, and Michael Auli. 2020. wav2vec 2.0: A framework for self-supervised learning of speech representations. In *Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS’20)*. Curran Associates Inc., Red Hook, NY, USA, Article 1044, 12 pages.

[9] Alexander Baranov, Vladimir Kniazhevsky, and Pavel Braslavski. 2023. You told me that joke twice: A systematic investigation of transferability and robustness of humor detection models. In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*. Houda Bouamor, Juan Pino, and Kalika Bali (Eds.), ACL, Singapore, 13701–13715. DOI:https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.845

[10] Sriphani Bellamkonda, Maithili Lohakare, and Shaswat Patel. 2022. A dataset for detecting humor in telugu social media text. In *Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Speech and Language Technologies for Dravidian Languages*. Bharathi Raja Chakravarthi, Ruba Priyadharshini, Anand Kumar Madasamy, Parameswari Krishnamurthy, Elizabeth Sherly, and Sinnathamby Mahesan (Eds.), ACL, Dublin, Ireland, 9–14. DOI:https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.dravidianlangtech-1.2

[11] Leonard bereska and Efstratios Gavves. 2024. Mechanistic Interpretability for AI Safety – A Review. Preprint: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14082

[12] Kim Binsted and Graeme Ritchie. 1994. An implemented model of punning riddles. In *Proceedings of the 12th AAAI National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI’94)*. AAAI, 633–638.

[13] Neha Reddy Bogireddy, Smriti Suresh, and Sunny Rai. 2023. I’m out of breath from laughing! I think? A dataset of COVID-19 Humor and its toxic variants. In *Companion Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023 (WWW’23 Companion)*. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1004–1013. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/3543873.3587591

[14] Piotr Bojanowski, Edouard Grave, Armand Joulin, and Tomas Mikolov. 2016. Enriching word vectors with subword information. 12 pages. arXiv:1607.04606. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.04606

[15] Hugo Albert Bonet, Aina Magraner Rincón, and Alba Martínez López. 2023. Detection, classification and quantification of hurtful humor (HUHU) on twitter using classical models, ensemble models, and transformers. In *Proceedings of the Iberian Languages Evaluation Forum (IberLEF 2023) co-located with the Conference of the Spanish Society for Natural Language Processing (SEPLN 2023), Jaén, Spain, September 26, 2023*. Manuel Montes-y-Gómez, Francisco Rangel, Salud María Jiménez-Zafra, Marco Casavantes, Begoña Altuna, Miguel Ángel Álvarez-Carmona, Gemma Bel-Enguix, Luis Chiruzzo, Iker de la Iglesia, Hugo Jair Escalante, Miguel Ángel García Cumbreras, José Antonio García-Díaz, José Ángel González Barba, Roberto Labadie Tamayo, Salvador Lima, Pablo Moral, Flor Miriam Plaza del Arco, and Rafael Valencia-García (Eds.), CEUR Workshop Proceedings, Vol. 3496, CEUR-WS.org. Retrieved from https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3496/huhu-paper6.pdf

[16] Mark Boukes, Giselinde Kuipers, Zilin Lin, and Savvas Zannettou. 2024. The faces and forms of pandemic humor: Exploring Covid-19 memes with visual machine learning. *Journal of Quantitative Description: Digital Media* 4 (2024), 1–59. DOI:https://doi.org/10.51685/jqd.2024.icwsm.6
