[100] Badri N. Patro, Mayank Lunayach, Deepankar Srivastava, Sarvesh Hunar Singh, and Vinay P. Namboodiri. 2021. Multimodal humor dataset: Predicting laughter tracks for sitcoms. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV).* 576–585.

[101] Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher Manning. 2014. GloVe: Global vectors for word representation. In *Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).* Alessandro Moschitti, Bo Pang, and Walter Daelemans (Eds.), ACL, Doha, Qatar, 1532–1543. DOI :https://doi.org/10.3115/v1/D14-1162

[102] Arpan Phukan, Anas Anwarul Haq Khan, and Asif Ekbal. 2024. QuMIN: Quantum multi-modal data fusion for humor detection. *Multimedia Tools and Applications* 84, 18 (2024), 18855–18872. DOI :https://doi.org/10.1007/s11042-024-19790-9

[103] Victor Manuel Palma Preciado, Grigori Sidorov, Liana Ermakova, Anne-Gwenn Bosser, Tristan Miller, and Adam Jatowt. 2024. Overview of the CLEF 2024 JOKER Task 2: Humour classification according to genre and technique. In *CEUR Workshop Proceedings.*

[104] Béatrice Priego-Valverde, Brigitte Bigi, and Mary Amoyal. 2020. “Cheese!”: A corpus of face-to-face french interactions. a case study for analyzing smiling and conversational humor. In *Proceedings of the 12th Language Resources and Evaluation Conference.* Nicoletta Calzolari, Frédéric Béchet, Philippe Blache, Khalid Choukri, Christopher Cieri, Thierry Declerck, Sara Goggi, Hitoshi Isahara, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mariani, Hélène Mazo, Asuncion Moreno, Jan Odijk, and Stelios Piperidis (Eds.), European Language Resources Association, Marseille, France, 467–475. Retrieved from https://aclanthology.org/2020.lrec-1.59

[105] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision. 48 pages. arXiv:2103.00020. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.00020

[106] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. 2020. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. *Journal of Machine Learning Research* 21, 1, Article 140 (2020), 67 pages.

[107] Sahithya Ravi, Patrick Huber, Akshat Shrivastava, Vered Shwartz, and Arash Einiolghozati. 2024. Small but funny: A feedback-driven approach to humor distillation. In *Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers).* Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (Eds.), ACL, Bangkok, Thailand, 13078–13090. DOI :https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.706

[108] Lu Ren, Bo Xu, Hongfei Lin, Jinhui Zhang, and Liang Yang. 2022. An attention network via pronunciation, lexicon and syntax for humor recognition. *Applied Intelligence* 52 (2022), 2690–2702.

[109] Guilherme Sanches de Oliveira and Edward Baggs. 2023. *Psychology’s WEIRD Problems.* Cambridge University Press.

[110] Wenbo Shang, Jiangjiang Zhao, Zezhong Wang, Binyang Li, Fangchun Yang, and Kam-Fai Wong. 2022. “I know who you are”: Character-based features for conversational humor recognition in chinese. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022.* Yoav Goldberg, Zornitsa Kozareva, and Yue Zhang (Eds.), ACL, Abu Dhabi, UAE, 2927–2932. DOI :https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.findings-emnlp.212

[111] Manasi Sharma, Ho Chit Siu, Rohan Paleja, and Jaime D. Peña. 2024. Why Would You Suggest That? Human Trust in Language Model Responses. 18 pages. arXiv:2406.02018. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02018

[112] Farah Shatnawi, Malak Abdullah, Mahmoud Hammad, and Mahmoud Al-Ayyoub. 2023. Comprehensive study of pre-trained language models: Detecting humor in news headlines. *Soft Computing* 27 (2023), 2575–2599. DOI :https://doi.org/10.1007/s00500-022-07573-z

[113] Leandro Silva, Mainack Mondal, Denzil Correa, Fabrício Benevenuto, and Ingmar Weber. 2021. Analyzing the targets of hate in online social media. *Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media* 10, 1 (2021), 687–690. DOI :https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v10i1.14811

[114] Fábio Souza, Rodrigo Nogueira, and Roberto Lotufo. 2020. BERTimbau: Pretrained BERT models for brazilian portuguese. In *Proceedings of the Intelligent Systems: 9th Brazilian Conference, BRACIS 2020, Rio Grande, Brazil, October 20–23, 2020, Part I.* Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 403–417. DOI :https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-61377-8_28

[115] Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Alessandra Cervone, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. ExPUNations: Augmenting puns with keywords and explanations. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.* Yoav Goldberg, Zornitsa Kozareva, and Yue Zhang (Eds.), ACL, Abu Dhabi, UAE, 4590–4605. DOI :https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.emnlp-main.304

[116] Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Shuyang Gao, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. Context-situated pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.* Yoav Goldberg, Zornitsa Kozareva, and Yue Zhang (Eds.), ACL, Abu Dhabi, UAE, 4635–4648. DOI :https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.emnlp-main.306

[117] Kohtaro Tanaka, Hiroaki Yamane, Yusuke Mori, Yusuke Mukuta, and Tatsuya Harada. 2022. Learning to evaluate humor in memes based on the incongruity theory. In *Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on When Creative AI Meets*
