model internals. These methodological limitations are generally not addressed in the reviewed humor papers using them. Finally, due to the potential unreliability and indirect nature of the explainability methods in the direction to (both free-text and post-hoc), observing explainable behavior does not necessarily entail genuine humor understanding by the AI, as findings often highlight correlations rather than proven causal reasoning.

## 8 Discussion

In this section, our most important findings are discussed. The gaps presented in earlier survey papers, which were mentioned in the introduction, will be taken into consideration during this discussion. In addition, relevant future research directions based on remaining challenges will be suggested.

### 8.1 Annotation and Evaluation

Due to personal preferences, annotation and evaluation are two of the most foundational challenges in computational humor modeling. With respect to humor annotation, a positive evolution towards certain standard practices can be observed. First, Loakman et al. [84] argue that various types of demographic information should be reported in annotation experiments. In addition, Meaney [89] and Meaney et al. [90] propose an annotation setup where annotators have to distinguish between intended and perceived humor, and annotate offensiveness in humor. Furthermore, they argue that multiple annotators from varying demographics should assign labels to the same data points in order to establish high quality gold standard labels. These measures account for the subjective preferences and personal sensitivities in humor, and should therefore be considered standard practice in future work.

Regarding evaluation, on the other hand, we showed that there is currently no generally accepted evaluation paradigm that allows for (1) a comprehensive evaluation of humor models, and (2) comparability across research projects. This issue was already addressed in various survey papers published in 2020–2021 [4, 129], and likely contributes to the mixed results that have been reported for generative models in recent research, as also hypothesized in Li et al. [76]. Therefore, we argue that investigating what appropriate evaluation methods are should be prioritized in future work. As an initial template, we propose to use a multidimensional evaluation method, which accounts for (1) the diversity in humor mechanisms a single model can produce, (2) its appropriateness when producing jokes (accounting for the pragmatic and social context), and (3) originality, i.e., its ability to produce jokes that have not been seen during training. To test the validity of such a paradigm, it must be compared to human evaluations by testing their correlation.

### 8.2 Modalities and Genres of Humor

It has been mentioned that most previous computational humor research pertains to the modality of text, although humor is in reality a multimodal phenomenon. In this survey, we showed that more work has been done in multimodal research in recent years, especially for detection tasks. The main trend in the proposed approaches for these tasks is to utilize fusion models, which combine text embeddings (typically BERT-based), with auditive and visual components (e.g., ViT/CLIP and HuBERT/Wav2Vec, respectively) into a multilayer perceptron. For generation tasks, however, multimodality is still relatively understudied, although existing work has addressed tasks such as meme generation and cartoon caption generation.

Another issue, which has not been identified in previous survey papers, is an imbalance in the types of humor that are being studied. While Martin and Ford [88] claim that conversational humor constitutes most of our daily humor experiences, followed by performance humor, and finally jokes, this order is reversed when it comes to the amount of attention that is being spent to these genres
