Table 4. Overview of Humor Shared Tasks

| Reference(s) | Name | Description of Task(s) | Modalities | Evaluation | Lang(s) |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| [54] Hosseini et al. (2020) | SemEval-2020 Task 7: Assessing Humor in Edited News Headlines | **Task 1:** Humor rating<br>**Task 2:** Most humorous headline prediction | T | Task Task 1: RMSE<br>Task 2: A, reward | en |
| [28] Chiruzzo et al. (2021) | HAHA@Iberlef 2021 | **Task 1:** Humor detection<br>**Task 2:** Humor rating<br>**Task 3:** Mechanism classification<br>**Task 4:** Target classification | T | Task 1, 3, 4: F1<br>Task 2: RMSE | es |
| [90] Meaney et al. (2021) | HaHackathon:<br>SemEval-2021 Task 7 | **Task 1:** Humor detection in Reddit and X<br>**Task 2:** Humor rating<br>**Task 3:** Controversy detection | T | Task 1/3: A, F1<br>Task 2: RMSE | en |
| [15] Bonet et al. (2023) | HUrtful HUmour (HUHU): Detection of humour spreading prejudice in X | **Task 1:** Humor detection in tweets<br>**Task 2a:** Classification of targeted minority group<br>**Task 2b:** Hurtfulness rating | T | Task 1/2a: F1<br>Task 2b: RMSE | es |
| [37] Ermakova et al. (2024a)<br>[103] Preciado et al. (2024)<br>[38] Ermakova et al. (2024b) | CLEF 2024 JOKER Shared Task | **Task 1:** Information retrieval<br>**Task 2:** Humor classification<br>**Task 3:** Pun translation | T | map, ndcg, pre, rec, bp<br>pre, rec, F1, acc<br>BLEU, BERTscore | en<br>en<br>en, fr, es |
| [5] Amiriparian et al. (2024) | MuSe 2024:<br>Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Challenge | **Task 1:** Social perception analysis<br>**Task 2:** Cross-cultural humor recognition | T, V, A | Task 1: Pearson<br>Task 2: AUC | en, de |

The name of the shared tasks, task descriptions, modalities (T: text, V: video, I: image, A: audio), evaluation metrics (P: precision, R: recall, F1: F1-score, A: accuracy, RMSE: Root Mean Squared Error), and languages are specified.

[49]. When observing performance per class, high imbalances could be observed, but these could be explained by correlation with class frequency in the data. Finally, the third task consisted of translating puns from English to French. For this task, the JOKER-2023 wordplay corpus was used [36]. This dataset contains 1,405 English wordplay instances, with 5,838 translations to French, performed by professional translators (72% of puns have more than 1 translation). Eleven teams participated in this task, and used mainly LLMs, commercial translation systems, and out-of-the-box translation models. Overall, approaches using Google Translate obtained the highest results.

### 4.6 MuSe@ACM-MM 2024

The fifth iteration of the **Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Challenge (MuSe)** [5] included a cross-cultural humor detection challenge based on the Passau-SFCH dataset [30]. The goal of this task was to perform multimodal humor detection in football coach interviews, where the training data consisted of Bundesliga coaches (German native speakers), and the test data consisted of Premier League coaches (various backgrounds). The best model reported an AUC-score of 0.87, and consisted of a fusion model that combined text, audio, and video data. For text, a BERT model was used, whereas Wav2Vec [8] and ViT-FER [20] were used for the audio and video data, respectively. This trimodal approach obtains substantial improvements over unimodal and bimodal systems.

### 4.7 Trends and Advancements

The main trend we observed in previous shared tasks (see Table 4) is that they all focused on humor detection while neglecting humor generation tasks (although JOKER organized the additional task of pun translation). Due to the nature of these tasks, and successes of pre-trained transformers, (BERT-based) encoders dominated in the model submissions, causing **relatively little variation in submitted models** and therefore also in the results within the same shared task. Furthermore,
