for each data point. Specifically, they were first asked to indicate whether each post was intended to be humorous (yes/no). If this was the case, they were asked to provide a score on a Likert scale of 1 to 5 regarding how funny they found the post, and whether it was offensive (not only in general, i.e., as intended by the speaker, but also to the annotator personally). Afterward, Kippendorff’s $\alpha$ was computed to measure the inter-annotator agreement across the annotation tasks, and it was shown that there was **high agreement for detecting _humor intention_, but low agreement for rating humorousness and offensiveness.** This result was reflected in the submissions of the participating teams, which achieved high results on task 1 (F1-score>0.96 for the top 10 best performing teams), but low results on tasks 2 and 3 (which were around 0.50–0.55 RMSE and 0.62–0.63 F1-score, respectively, for the top 10 best performing participants).

### 4.3 HAHA@IberLef 2021

The goal of the HAHA shared task, co-located at IberLef 2021, was to not only perform humor detection (task 1) and humor rating (task 2), but to dive deeper into automatic humor analysis [28]. Specifically, a third task consisted of detecting humor mechanisms: absurdity, analogy, embarrassment, exaggeration, insults, irony, misunderstanding, parody, reference to world knowledge, stereotype, unmasking of someone’s intentions, and wordplay. The fourth and final task consisted of identifying the target of humor. This task included the following categories: age, body shaming, ethnicity/origin, family/relationships, health, LGBT+, men, professions, religion, self-deprecating, sexual aggressors, social status, substance use, technology, and women.

The dataset consisted of 36,000 tweets (24,000 for training, and 6,000 for development and testing, each), of which 15,000 were humorous. The humor mechanism and target(s) were labelled in 7,200 of these tweets. In total, 14 teams participated in the shared task. The winning team, all subtasks considered, used an ensemble of pre-trained transformers that was fine-tuned on the provided humor data [43]. Nine other teams also relied on pre-trained transformers, whereas the remaining participants either used other neural architectures or classical machine learning approaches.

### 4.4 HUHU@IberLef 2023

The HUrtful HUmor (HUHU) detection shared task was organized as part of the IberLef 2023 conference [75]. The goal of the shared task was to detect prejudice-spreading humor in X, in which the term _prejudice_ was defined as “the negative pre-judgment of members of a race or religion or of any other socially significant group, regardless of the facts that contradict it” [62]. Specifically, the shared task consisted of detecting stereotypes towards certain minorities that are conveyed by humor in Spanish tweets. In the first subtask, models needed to predict whether a tweet was humorous. Then, the second task was to identify the minority group targeted by the humorous stereotypes. Additionally, participants had to predict the degree of hurtfulness on a scale of 1–5. Details on how the dataset or annotations were collected are not reported.

### 4.5 JOKER@CLEF 2024

JOKER-2024 was the third iteration of the JOKER shared task, organized at the CLEF conference, and consisted of three subtasks. The first task comprised retrieving jokes about specific topics. The dataset was built from the JOKER-2023 shared task, and consisted of more than 60,000 English texts, of which 4,492 were humorous, from various genres. In total, 10 teams participated and they employed techniques ranging from TF-IDF and BM25 to BERT [34] and SimpleT5 [106]. The results showed that both precision and recall were extremely low, indicating how challenging the task is. The second task consisted of humor classification by genre (6 classes), for which approximately 2,500 humorous texts were provided for training. The best performing submission was based on Mistral-7B [61], which obtained an F1-score of 70%; 10% more than the runner up, who used DeBERTa
