[133] Zixiaofan Yang, Shayan Hooshmand, and Julia Hirschberg. 2021. CHoRaL: Collecting humor reaction labels from millions of social media users. In *Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*. Marie-Francine Moens, Xuanjing Huang, Lucia Specia, and Scott Wen-tau Yih (Eds.), ACL, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, 4429–4435. DOI: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.364

[134] Jian Ye, Zhe Chen, Juhua Liu, and Bo Du. 2020. TextFuseNet: Scene text detection with richer fused features. In *Proceedings of the 29th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI-20*. Christian Bessiere (Ed.), International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence Organization, 516–522. DOI: https://doi.org/10.24963/ijcai.2020/72

[135] JingJie Zeng, Liang Yang, Jiahao Kang, Yufeng Diao, Zhihao Yang, and Hongfei Lin. 2024. “Barking up the right tree”, a GAN-based pun generation model through semantic pruning. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024)*. Nicoletta Calzolari, Min-Yen Kan, Veronique Hoste, Alessandro Lenci, Sakriani Sakti, and Nianwen Xue (Eds.), ELRA and ICCL, Torino, Italia, 2119–2131. Retrieved from https://aclanthology.org/2024.lrec-main.191/

[136] Zeyuan Zeng, Zefeng Li, Liang Yang, and Hongfei Lin. 2024. Leveraging social context for humor recognition and sense of humor evaluation in social media with a new chinese humor corpus - humorWB. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024)*. Nicoletta Calzolari, Min-Yen Kan, Veronique Hoste, Alessandro Lenci, Sakriani Sakti, and Nianwen Xue (Eds.), ELRA and ICCL, Torino, Italia, 10393–10402. Retrieved from https://aclanthology.org/2024.lrec-main.908

[137] Tuo Zhang, Tiantian Feng, Yibin Ni, Mengqin Cao, Ruying Liu, Katharine Butler, Yanjun Weng, Mi Zhang, Shrikanth S. Narayanan, and Salman Avestimehr. 2024. Creating a Lens of Chinese Culture: A Multimodal Dataset for Chinese Pun Rebus Art Understanding. 16 pages. arXiv:2406.10318. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10318

[138] Shanshan Zhong, Zhongzhan Huang, Shanghua Gao, Wushao Wen, Liang Lin, Marinka Zitnik, and Pan Zhou. 2024. Let’s think outside the box: Exploring leap-of-thought in large language models with creative humor generation. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)*. 13246–13257.

Received 25 April 2025; revised 14 October 2025; accepted 7 November 2025
