## 7 Interpretability and Explainability

This section addresses how interpretability and explainability efforts help gaining insights into what LLMs actually know and *understand* about humor. Humor is considered an AI-complete problem [129], making interpretability a valuable lens for assessing humor as a way to evaluate how LLMs perform on creative tasks that demand human-like reasoning and cognition. We review the relationship between AI-based humor detection and generation techniques, along with relevant datasets, and existing linguistic and psychological humor knowledge and research outside of AI. We consider how insights from the latter inform AI approaches and how AI, in turn, might contribute to humor research.

Interpretability aims to show a clear causal link from the model input or the model working to the output [80]. In contrast, explainability refers to those methods that allow human understanding of the internal model workings. While distinct terms,[^8] their approaches can overlap. Ideally, a system possesses both qualities: a causal input-to-output link that accurately represents the model’s functioning and is also understandable by humans.

Within computational humor, interpretability and explainability operate in **two directions**: existing knowledge about humor that is implemented in humor systems (direction *from*), and working humor systems that contribute towards specifying our knowledge about humor or creating an entire new humor theory, explicitly or inadvertently (direction *to*). In practice, these two directions are not as extreme, because humor knowledge is only partially considered or contributed to.

### 7.1 The Direction *from*

The direction *from* contains theory-driven or symbolic explanations. Interpretability is by design: models, corpora, or feature sets are explicitly built around cognitive humor theories, symbolic humor rules, or well-defined linguistic humor features.

*Datasets.* Tseng et al. [123] provide a corpus of 3,365 Chinese jokes annotated with explicit *humor skills* (e.g., double meaning) and *intents*, making humorous elements explicit based on theoretical humor-building blocks.

Tanaka et al. [117] explicitly model meme-caption incongruity by subtracting the caption’s CLIP embedding from the image’s CLIP embedding, improving meme detection accuracy 4% (totaling 57.7%) over a ViT baseline.

Liu and Hou [83] applied the incongruity theory of humor (specifically, Script-Based Semantic Theory) to verbal humor, measuring setup uncertainty and setup-punchline incongruity using entropy on density matrices, representing semantic dispersion in a higher-dimensional space. An SVM trained on these theory-driven features achieved higher F1 scores than one using baseline features, aligning with theoretical definitions. However, performance (max F1 63.2%) remained below black-box methods on the same dataset (Section 4.2, task 1).

De Marez et al. [32] use an ensemble of interpretable **generalized additive models (GAMs)**, each mapping numeric proxy features onto a specific humor theory by design. The GAMs’ interpretability allows verifying the proxies and pinpointing feature contributions (which can also be seen as a direction *to* humor knowledge). This approach also showed lower performance compared to black-box methods on the same dataset, with a maximal F1 of 85%.

Bunescu and Uduehi [19] evaluate several surprise measures based on BERT’s word probability distributions for predicting humorous headlines, based on derivatives of the incongruity theory of humor. Using these measures as features in logistic regression, they found surprise outperformed

[^8]: There is no generally agreed upon definition of interpretability and explainability, but for clarity, in this review they are considered to mean as is stated in Linardatos et al. [80].
