reported their reaction to the scenario on a series of dichotomous yes/no measures, as recommended in the literature on mixed emotions (Larsen, McGraw, & Cacioppo, 2001; Russell & Carroll, 1999). Specifically, participants indicated whether or not they were amused, were disgusted, and thought the behavior was wrong.

**_Results._** Most participants judged the behavior in the scenario to be wrong (72%) and disgusting (94%) regardless of condition; however, participants were more amused by the harmless version than by the harmful version (61% vs. 28%), $\chi^2(1, N = 36) = 4.1, p < .05$. Moreover, amusement typically supplemented, rather than replaced, feelings of disgust. Consequently, participants were more likely to report being both amused and disgusted when the behavior was harmless than when it was harmful (56% vs. 22%), $\chi^2(1, N = 36) = 4.2, p < .05$ (see Table 3 for results).

### Study 4: commitment to the violated norm

Another way a violation may seem benign is if a situation violates a norm to which people are only weakly committed (Veatch, 1998). People who are more weakly committed to a norm can recognize the violation but are less likely to be threatened or to directly experience the violation’s repercussions. Consider a news story about a church that raffles off a Hummer SUV as part of a promotion for its members (Graham, 2005). Engaging in such a secular promotion jeopardizes the sanctity of the church, and, although most people consider churches sacred, churchgoers should be more strongly committed to this belief than are people who do not attend church (McGraw, Schwartz, & Tetlock, 2010). Consequently, we expected that nonchurchgoers would be more amused and would experience more mixed emotions than churchgoers when reading about a church that raffles off an SUV as part of a promotion.

**_Design and measures._** Eighty undergraduate participants (55% female, 45% male) completed Study 4 for partial course credit. Participants were randomly assigned to read either a violation version or a control version of a scenario in which a church (violation) or a credit union (control) raffles off an H2 Hummer SUV as part of a promotion (see Table 2). Participants indicated whether or not they were amused and disgusted, responding “yes” or “no.” Next, we asked whether or not participants attended church (our proxy for commitment). Participants who attended church were coded as strongly committed, and participants who never attended church were coded as weakly committed to the sanctity of the church. Crossing the manipulation with the individual difference in commitment yielded a 2 (version: violation, control) $\times$ 2 (commitment: high, low) between-subjects design.

**_Results._** Both nonchurchgoers and churchgoers were disgusted by the violation, a church giving away an SUV (69% vs. 65%), $\chi^2(1, N = 39) = 0.06, p > .8$. However, nonchurchgoers, who were less committed to the violated norm, were more likely to be amused than churchgoers (92% vs. 62%), $\chi^2(1, N = 39) = 4.1, p < .05$. Nonchurchgoers were also more likely than churchgoers to be both amused and disgusted (69% vs. 35%), $\chi^2(1, N = 39) = 4.2, p < .05$. As expected, we found no differences between churchgoers and nonchurchgoers in the control condition, in which a credit union gave away an SUV ($ps > .1$; see Table 4 for results).<sup>2</sup>

**Table 2.** Scenarios for Studies 3, 4, and 5

| Study and scenario | Harmless or control version | Harmful or violation version |
|---|---|---|
| Study 3: Kitten (adapted from Schnall, Haidt, Clore, & Jordan, 2008) | Matthew is playing with his new kitten late one night. He is wearing only his boxer shorts, and the kitten sometimes walks over his genitals. Eventually, this arouses him, and he begins to rub his bare genitals along the kitten’s body. **The kitten purrs, and seems to enjoy the contact.** | Matthew is playing with his new kitten late one night. He is wearing only his boxer shorts, and the kitten sometimes walks over his genitals. Eventually, this arouses him, and he begins to rub his bare genitals along the kitten’s body. **The kitten whines, and does not seem to enjoy the contact.** |
| Study 4: Hummer (adapted from Graham, 2005) | In order to recruit new members, a **credit union** is raffling off a new H2 Hummer SUV. Anyone who joins the **credit union** in the next six months will be eligible to enter and win the H2. | In order to recruit new members, a **church** is raffling off a new H2 Hummer SUV. Anyone who joins the **church** in the next six months will be eligible to enter and win the H2. |
| Study 5: Chicken (adapted from Haidt, Koller, & Dias, 1993) | A man goes to the supermarket once a week and buys a chicken. But before cooking the chicken, he **marinates** it. Then he cooks the chicken and eats it. | A man goes to the supermarket once a week and buys a chicken. But before cooking the chicken, he **has sexual intercourse with it**. Then he cooks the chicken and eats it. |

Note: Boldface highlights the words that differed between versions.
