with the benign-violation hypothesis. A significant percentage of participants who considered the behavior in the violation versions wrong also reported laughing at the behavior (27% vs. 0%), $F(1, 58) = 60.7$, $p < .001$ (see Table 1 for results).

### _Study 2: funny violations seem “wrong” and “not wrong”_

Next, we explored whether people who interpret a situation as both a violation and benign are more likely to smile and laugh than those who do not. One way a violation can be benign is if it seems wrong according to one norm, but acceptable according to another norm. Therefore, to test the simultaneity condition of the benign-violation hypothesis, we asked participants exposed to either the violation version or the control version of a scenario if they could interpret the behavior in the scenario as both “wrong” and “not wrong.”

**_Design and measures._** People were approached by a research assistant on a large university campus and asked if they were willing to participate in a brief research study. Those who consented ($N = 73$) were given an envelope and instructed to read a brief scenario inside. Depending on random assignment, the scenario described a man who snorts (violation) or buries (control) his dead father’s ashes (see Snorting Remains in Table 1). While the participant read the scenario, a research assistant, blind to both the participant’s condition and the experiment’s hypotheses, observed whether or not the participant smiled and laughed. Participants who smiled or laughed were coded as displaying amusement.

After reading the scenario, participants read the following instructions:

> People can interpret situations in a variety of ways. Some people may think that a situation is wrong, while others think that it is okay. Sometimes, however, the same person may be able to see how a situation can be interpreted as both wrong and okay. We want to know whether you see the behavior in the above scenario as wrong, not wrong, or both wrong and not wrong.

Participants then responded “yes” or “no” to each of two questions: “Can you interpret the behavior in this scenario as wrong (i.e., immoral)?” and “Can you interpret the behavior in this scenario as not wrong (i.e., okay)?”

**_Results._** Results were consistent with those of the initial study. Participants were more likely to show signs of amusement while reading the violation version about a son snorting his father’s ashes than while reading the control version about a son burying his father’s ashes (32% vs. 8%), $\chi^2(1, N = 73) = 6.5$, $p = .01$. Interestingly, participants who interpreted the behavior as both wrong and not wrong were significantly more likely to show signs of amusement than participants who interpreted the behavior as strictly wrong or strictly not wrong (44% vs. 13%), $\chi^2(1, N = 73) = 8.5$, $p < .01$. A mediation test indicated that the interpretation of the behavior as both wrong and not wrong partially mediated the effect of scenario version on displays of amusement, Sobel $t = 2.1$, $p < .05$ (Baron & Kenny, 1986).

## Mixed Emotions and Benign Violations

Theorists typically describe humor as a strictly positive emotional experience (Gervais & Wilson, 2005; Martin, 2007; Veatch, 1998). However, the benign-violation hypothesis posits that a violation is a necessary condition for humor, and violations typically elicit negative emotion (Nesse, 1990; Rozin et al., 1999). Moreover, simultaneity, another necessary condition for humor according to the benign-violation hypothesis, is conducive to mixed emotions (Larsen, McGraw, Mellers, & Cacioppo, 2004). Thus, we suspect that some humorous situations may arouse negative emotion in addition to amusement and laughter. A similar idea was initially suggested by Plato (trans. 1975), who believed that humor involves a mixture of pleasure and pain, and recent research has confirmed that some humorous experiences, such as tickling and toilet humor, involve mixed emotions (Harris & Alvarado, 2005; Hemenover & Schimmack, 2007). Our subsequent studies tested whether benign moral violations elicit mixed emotions of amusement and disgust. The studies also investigated conditions that make violations simultaneously seem benign.

### _Study 3: conflicting norm interpretations_

One way in which a violation may seem benign is if one norm suggests that the behavior is wrong but another simultaneously suggests that it is acceptable. Consider the scenario developed by Schnall, Haidt, Clore, and Jordan (2008), in which a man rubs his bare genitals on his pet kitten. In the original scenario, the kitten “purrs and seems to enjoy the contact” (p. 1108). The protagonist violates a moral norm related to bestiality by using his pet kitten as a sex toy. However, because no one is harmed—note that the kitten seems to enjoy the contact—the behavior is acceptable according to an alternative norm based on harm (Haidt, 2007). Consequently, we suspect that many people will see the behavior in this scenario as a benign violation and be amused. But what if the kitten is harmed by the behavior? Suppose that instead of purring, the kitten “whines and does not seem to enjoy the contact.” In this case, the behavior is wrong according to both norms. We suspect that this violation will seem less benign and, consequently, less amusing. Study 3 tested this hypothesis.

**_Design and measures._** Thirty-six undergraduates (42% female, 58% male) completed the experiment in exchange for partial course credit. Participants were randomly assigned to read one of two versions (harmful, harmless) of a scenario in which a man rubs his genitals on a kitten (see Table 2). Participants
