*Research Article*

[Figure: APS Association for Psychological Science logo]

Psychological Science  
21(8) 1141–1149  
© The Author(s) 2010  
Reprints and permission:  
sagepub.com/journalsPermissions.nav  
DOI: 10.1177/0956797610376073  
http://pss.sagepub.com  

SAGE

# Benign Violations: Making Immoral Behavior Funny

**A. Peter McGraw and Caleb Warren**  
Leeds School of Business, University of Colorado at Boulder

## Abstract

Humor is an important, ubiquitous phenomenon; however, seemingly disparate conditions seem to facilitate humor. We integrate these conditions by suggesting that laughter and amusement result from violations that are simultaneously seen as benign. We investigated three conditions that make a violation benign and thus humorous: (a) the presence of an alternative norm suggesting that the situation is acceptable, (b) weak commitment to the violated norm, and (c) psychological distance from the violation. We tested the benign-violation hypothesis in the domain of moral psychology, where there is a strong documented association between moral violations and negative emotions, particularly disgust. Five experimental studies show that benign moral violations tend to elicit laughter and amusement in addition to disgust. Furthermore, seeing a violation as both wrong and not wrong mediates behavioral displays of humor. Our account is consistent with evolutionary accounts of laughter, explains humor across many domains, and suggests that humor can accompany negative emotion.

## Keywords

humor, moral violations, moral judgment, emotion, mixed emotions, disgust, laughter

Received 9/23/09; Accepted 12/7/09

Theories of humor often suggest that humor requires a perceived violation, or something that disrupts people’s sense of how the world ought to be (Freud, 1928; Gruner, 1997; Veatch, 1998). Moral psychology theories, however, typically suggest that the very same types of normative breaches elicit negative emotions, such as disgust, rather than amusement (Rozin, Lowery, Imada, & Haidt, 1999). We hypothesize that humor is elicited by benign violations and show that moral violations that simultaneously seem benign elicit laughter and amusement in addition to disgust.

## Humor Is Important

Humor is a psychological state characterized by the positive emotion of amusement and the tendency to laugh (Gervais & Wilson, 2005; Martin, 2007; Veatch, 1998). Understanding humor is important to psychological science. Humor is ubiquitous. People of all ages and cultures experience humor in their daily conversation, observation, and imagination (Apte, 1985; Wyer & Collins, 1992). The pursuit of humor affects people’s entertainment choices and whom they select as friends, dates, and mates (Martin, 2007; Provine, 2000). Humor also bestows social, psychological, and physical benefits. It attracts attention and admiration, softens criticism, delineates social boundaries, and alleviates conflict between people with different worldviews (Gervais & Wilson, 2005; Keltner, Capps, Kring, Young, & Heerey, 2001; Martin, 2007). Humor even helps people cope with anxiety, embarrassment, grief, and physical pain (Gervais & Wilson, 2005; Keltner & Bonanno, 1997; Martin, 2007).

## Theories of Humor

Since the dawn of Western thought, philosophers, scientists, and comedians have tried to explain what makes things funny. Theories of humor, however, tend to suffer from one of two drawbacks. Domain-specific theories, which address narrow sources of humor, such as jokes (Raskin, 1985) or irony (Giora, 1995), are incapable of explaining humor across domains. And general humor theories, which attempt to explain all types of humor by supposing broad antecedents, such as incongruity (Suls, 1972), superiority (Gruner, 1997), or tension release (Freud, 1928), often erroneously predict humor, as in the case of some unexpected tragedies. For example, unintentionally killing a loved one would be incongruous, assert superiority,

---

**Corresponding Author:**  
A. Peter McGraw, UCB 419, Leeds School of Business, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309  
E-mail: peter.mcgraw@colorado.edu
