**Table 5.** Results for Study 5

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th rowspan="2">Response</th>
      <th colspan="4">Violation version</th>
      <th colspan="4">Control version</th>
      <th rowspan="2">$\chi^2$ test (violation vs. control)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Far condition</th>
      <th>Near condition</th>
      <th>Total</th>
      <th>$\chi^2$ test (far vs. near condition)</th>
      <th>Far condition</th>
      <th>Near condition</th>
      <th>Total</th>
      <th>$\chi^2$ test (far vs. near condition)</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Disgusted</td>
      <td>86</td>
      <td>83</td>
      <td>85</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 40) = 0.03,$<br>$p < 1.0$<sup>a</sup></td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 32) = 0.01,$<br>$p < 1.0$<sup>a</sup></td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 72) = 48.7,$<br>$p < .001$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Amused</td>
      <td>73</td>
      <td>39</td>
      <td>58</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 40) = 4.6,$<br>$p < .03$</td>
      <td>7</td>
      <td>11</td>
      <td>9</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 32) = 0.05,$<br>$p < 1.0$<sup>a</sup></td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 72) = 17.8,$<br>$p < .001$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Both disgusted<br>and amused</td>
      <td>64</td>
      <td>28</td>
      <td>47</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 40) = 5.1,$<br>$p < .02$</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>—</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 72) = 21.2,$<br>$p < .001$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Disgusted only</td>
      <td>23</td>
      <td>56</td>
      <td>38</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 40) = 4.6,$<br>$p < .03$</td>
      <td>0</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 32) = 0.01,$<br>$p < 1.0$<sup>a</sup></td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 72) = 12.6,$<br>$p < .001$</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Amused only</td>
      <td>9</td>
      <td>11</td>
      <td>10</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 40) = 0.10,$<br>$p < 1.0$<sup>a</sup></td>
      <td>7</td>
      <td>11</td>
      <td>9</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 32) = 0.05,$<br>$p < 1.0$<sup>a</sup></td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 72) = 0.01,$<br>$p < 1.0$<sup>a</sup></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Neither<br>disgusted nor<br>amused</td>
      <td>5</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>5</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 40) = 0.34,$<br>$p < 1.0$<sup>a</sup></td>
      <td>93</td>
      <td>83</td>
      <td>88</td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 32) = 0.07,$<br>$p < .61$<sup>a</sup></td>
      <td>$\chi^2(1, N = 72) = 49.8,$<br>$p < .001$</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Note: The table indicates the percentage of participants who reported each response.  
<sup>a</sup>These $p$ values were calculated using Fisher’s exact test.

points, (12, 10) and (−11, −8), approximately 16 cm apart on the coordinate plane. Participants in the near condition plotted points, (2, 4) and (−3, −1), approximately 4 cm apart on the coordinate plane (Williams & Bargh, 2008). After completing the distance prime, participants read one of two versions of a scenario adapted from Haidt et al. (1993) as part of an ostensibly unrelated experiment. Participants read about a man either having sexual intercourse with (violation) or marinating (control) a chicken before cooking and eating it (see Table 2). They indicated whether or not they were amused and whether or not they were disgusted, responding “yes” or “no” to each question.

**Results.** Most participants responded with disgust to the violation, a man having sexual intercourse with a chicken, irrespective of whether they were primed with far or near distance (86% vs. 83%), $\chi^2(1, N = 40) = 0.07, p > .7$. However, participants primed to feel psychologically far from the violation were more amused than those primed to feel psychologically near the violation (73% vs. 39%), $\chi^2(1, N = 40) = 4.6, p < .05$. They also were more likely to report being both amused and disgusted (64% vs. 28%), $\chi^2(1, N = 40) = 5.1, p < .05$. Participants responded to the control scenario, a man marinating a chicken, with very little emotion, and these responses did not differ as a function of psychological distance ($ps > .3$; see Table 5 for results).

## Discussion

We found that benign moral violations tend to elicit laughter (Study 1), behavioral displays of amusement (Study 2), and mixed emotions of amusement and disgust (Studies 3–5). Moral violations are amusing when another norm suggests that the behavior is acceptable (Studies 2 and 3), when one is weakly committed to the violated norm (Study 4), or when one feels psychologically distant from the violation (Study 5). These findings contribute to current understanding of humor by providing empirical support for the benign-violation hypothesis and by showing that negative emotions can accompany laughter and amusement. The findings also contribute to understanding of moral psychology by showing that benign moral violations elicit laughter and amusement in addition to disgust.

We investigated the benign-violation hypothesis in the domain of moral violations. The hypothesis, however, appears to explain humor across a range of domains, including tickling, teasing, slapstick, and puns. As previously discussed, tickling, which often elicits laughter, is a benign violation because it is a mock attack (Gervais & Wilson, 2005; Koestler, 1964). Similarly, teasing, which is a playful, indirect method of provocation that threatens the dignity of a target (Keltner et al., 2001), appears to be consistent with the benign-violation hypothesis. Targets are more likely to be amused by teasing that is less direct (multiple possible interpretations), less relevant to the targets’ self-concept (low commitment), and more exaggerated (greater hypotheticality or psychological distance; Keltner et al., 2001). Slapstick humor also involves benign violations because the harmful or demeaning acts are hypothetical and thus psychologically distant. Slapstick is less funny if it seems too real or if the viewer feels empathy for the victim. Humorous puns also appear to be benign violations. A pun is funny, at least to people who care about language, because it violates a language convention but is technically correct according to an alternative interpretation of a word or phrase (Veatch, 1998).
