## Conclusion

Synthesizing seemingly disparate ideas into three jointly necessary and sufficient conditions (appraisal as a violation, appraisal as a benign situation, and simultaneity), we suggest that humor is a positive and adaptive response to benign violations. Humor provides a healthy and socially beneficial way to react to hypothetical threats, remote concerns, minor setbacks, social faux pas, cultural misunderstandings, and other benign violations people encounter on a regular basis. Humor also serves a valuable communicative function (Martin, 2007; Provine, 2000; Ramachandran, 1998): Laughter and amusement signal to the world that a violation is indeed okay.

## Acknowledgments

The authors contributed equally to this work. We thank Christy Horber and Derick Davis for research assistance. We also thank Dan Bartels, Jeff Larsen, Jonathan Levav, Michael Sargent, Phil Tetlock, Lawrence Williams, and the Judgment, Emotion, Decision, and Intuition (JEDI) lab for helpful comments.

## Declaration of Conflicting Interests

The authors declared that they had no conflicts of interest with respect to their authorship or the publication of this article.

## Notes

1. Across the five studies, there was no consistent evidence for gender effects. When they were present, women tended to be less amused than men. This could have been due to stimulus selection or socially desirable responding. We leave this question to future research.

2. We suspect that the participants who were amused in the control condition were amused because the brand name, Hummer, also can be used as a euphemism for a sexual act, which created an unintended benign violation.

## References

Andrade, E.B., & Cohen, J.B. (2007). On the consumption of negative feelings. *Journal of Consumer Research, 34,* 283–300.

Apte, M.L. (1985). *Humor and laughter: An anthropological approach.* Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.

Apter, M.J. (1982). *The experience of motivation: The theory of psychological reversals.* London: Academic Press.

Baron, R.M., & Kenny, D.A. (1986). The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations. *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 51,* 1173–1182.

Freud, S. (1928). Humor. *International Journal of Psychoanalysis, 9,* 1–6.

Gervais, M., & Wilson, D.S. (2005). The evolution and functions of laughter and humor: A synthetic approach. *Quarterly Review of Biology, 80,* 395–430.

Giora, R. (1995). On irony and negation. *Discourse Processes, 19,* 239–264.

Graham, K. (2005, January 10). Church’s Hummer prize too worldly? *St. Petersburg Times.* Retrieved May 24, 2010, from http://www.sptimes.com/2005/01/10/Hillsborough/Church_s_Hummer_prize.shtml

Gruner, C. (1997). *The game of humor: A comprehensive theory of why we laugh.* New Brunswick, NJ: Transaction.

Haidt, J. (2007). The new synthesis in moral psychology. *Science, 316,* 998–1002.

Haidt, J., & Hersh, M.A. (2001). Sexual morality: The cultures and emotions of conservatives and liberals. *Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 31,* 191–221.

Haidt, J., Koller, S.H., & Dias, M.G. (1993). Affect, culture, and morality, or is it wrong to eat your dog. *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 65,* 613–628.

Harris, C.R., & Alvarado, N. (2005). Facial expressions, smile types, and self-report during humour, tickle, and pain. *Cognition & Emotion, 19,* 655–669.

Hemenover, S.H., & Schimmack, U. (2007). That’s disgusting! . . . , but very amusing: Mixed feelings of amusement and disgust. *Cognition & Emotion, 21,* 1102–1113.

Keltner, D., & Bonanno, G.A. (1997). A study of laughter and dissociation: Distinct correlates of laughter and smiling during bereavement. *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 73,* 687–702.

Keltner, D., Capps, L., Kring, A.M., Young, R.C., & Heerey, E.A. (2001). Just teasing: A conceptual analysis and empirical review. *Psychological Bulletin, 127,* 229–248.

Koestler, A. (1964). *The act of creation.* New York: Macmillan.

Larsen, J.T., McGraw, A.P., & Cacioppo, J.T. (2001). Can people feel happy and sad at the same time? *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 81,* 684–696.

Larsen, J.T., McGraw, A.P., Mellers, B.A., & Cacioppo, J.T. (2004). The agony of victory and thrill of defeat: Mixed emotional reactions to disappointing wins and relieving losses. *Psychological Science, 15,* 325–330.

Liberman, N., & Trope, Y. (2008). The psychology of transcending the here and now. *Science, 322,* 1201–1205.

Martin, R.A. (2007). *The psychology of humor: An integrative approach.* Burlington, MA: Elsevier Academic Press.

McCauley, C., Woods, K., Coolidge, C., & Kulick, W. (1983). More aggressive cartoons are funnier. *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 44,* 817–823.

McGraw, A.P., Schwartz, J., & Tetlock, P.E. (2010). *Commercial marketing with communal sentiments: Reframing taboo trade-offs in religious and pharmaceutical marketing.* Manuscript submitted for publication.

McGraw, A.P., & Tetlock, P.E. (2005). Taboo trade-offs, relational framing, and the acceptability of exchanges. *Journal of Consumer Psychology, 15,* 2–15.

Nesse, R.M. (1990). Evolutionary explanations of emotions. *Human Nature, 1,* 261–289.
