## Moral Violations Can Be Funny

### *Study 1: benign moral violations elicit laughter*

Our first study investigated whether moral violations that can be seen as benign are more likely to elicit laughter than are behaviors that do not violate a moral norm.

***Design and measures.*** Sixty-six people (42% female, 58% male) approached on a large university campus agreed to complete Study 1 in exchange for a candy bar. Participants read a violation version and a control version of four different scenarios (see Table 1). The violation versions described behaviors that breach a widely recognized moral norm, but are unusual enough to seem hypothetical and, therefore, psychologically distant. Moreover, although these behaviors violate a moral norm, they may be considered acceptable according to an alternative norm. For example, in the Snorting Remains scenario, a man disrespects his dead father by snorting his ashes. However, technically, the behavior honors the wishes of the deceased: The father told his son to do “whatever he wished with the remains.” In the control version, there is no violation: The son buries his father’s ashes.

After reading each version of each scenario, participants were asked two questions: “Is the behavior described in this scenario wrong (i.e., immoral)?” and “Did this scenario make you laugh?” Participants responded “yes” or “no” to each question.

The experiment used a 2 (version: violation, control) × 2 (version order: violation first, control first) × 4 (scenario order) mixed design. Version was manipulated within subjects, and the two order factors were manipulated between subjects. Analyses showed no significant effects of gender or order ($ps > .10$), so these variables are not discussed further.<sup>1</sup>

***Results.*** Participants were more likely to judge the behavior in the violation versions wrong than to judge the behavior in the control versions wrong (69% vs. 2%), $F(1, 58) = 576.5$, $p < .001$. They were also more likely to report laughter in response to violation versions than in response to control versions (44% vs. 5%), $F(1, 58) = 112.4$, $p < .001$, a pattern consistent

**Table 1.** Scenarios and Results From Study 1

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th rowspan="2" align="left">Scenario and version</th>
      <th colspan="3" align="center">Response (%)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th align="center">“Behavior is wrong”</th>
      <th align="center">“Behavior made me laugh”</th>
      <th align="center">Both</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Snorting Remains</td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Violation version: Before he passed away, Keith’s father told his son to cremate his body. Then he told Keith to do whatever he wished with the remains. Keith decided to <strong>snort</strong> his dead father’s ashes.</td>
      <td align="center">82</td>
      <td align="center">38</td>
      <td align="center">29</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Control version: Before he passed away, Keith’s father told his son to cremate his body. Then he told Keith to do whatever he wished with the remains. Keith decided to <strong>bury</strong> his dead father’s ashes.</td>
      <td align="center">6</td>
      <td align="center">5</td>
      <td align="center">0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Selling Virginity</td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Violation version: Jenny’s family made some poor investments. Then her father lost his job. She wanted to help out, and so she decided to sell her <strong>virginity</strong> on eBay® to earn money to help pay off family debt.</td>
      <td align="center">78</td>
      <td align="center">45</td>
      <td align="center">35</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Control version: Jenny’s family made some poor investments. Then her father lost his job. She wanted to help out, and so she decided to sell her <strong>jewelry</strong> on eBay® to earn money to help pay off family debt.</td>
      <td align="center">2</td>
      <td align="center">2</td>
      <td align="center">0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Stealing Tips</td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Violation version: The servers and bartenders at a wedding <strong>are denied</strong> tips when the mother of the bride walks up to the bar and casually <strong>pockets the money</strong> in the tip jar.</td>
      <td align="center">94</td>
      <td align="center">32</td>
      <td align="center">29</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Control version: The servers and bartenders at a wedding <strong>earn extra</strong> tips when the mother of the bride walks up to the bar and casually <strong>drops a ten-dollar</strong> bill in the tip jar.</td>
      <td align="center">0</td>
      <td align="center">3</td>
      <td align="center">0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Endorsing Pork</td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Violation version: Jimmy Dean decides to hire a <strong>rabbi</strong> as their new spokesperson for the company’s line of pork products.</td>
      <td align="center">21</td>
      <td align="center">62</td>
      <td align="center">12</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Control version: Jimmy Dean decides to hire a <strong>farmer</strong> as their new spokesperson for the company’s line of pork products.</td>
      <td align="center">0</td>
      <td align="center">12</td>
      <td align="center">0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Average</td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Violation version</td>
      <td align="center">69</td>
      <td align="center">44</td>
      <td align="center">27</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Control version</td>
      <td align="center">2</td>
      <td align="center">5</td>
      <td align="center">0</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Note: Boldface highlights the words that differed between versions.
