and half from the 120k). We asked participants to annotate six features discussed earlier, namely *humorous sound, juxtaposition, colloquial, insulting, sexual connotation, and scatological connotation*. Each feature was given a binary “yes/no” annotation, and results were averaged over at least 8 different raters per feature/word pair.

In each task, each rater was given the definition of a single feature and was presented with 30 words. They were asked to mark all words which possessed that feature by checking a box next to each word. A small number of workers were eliminated due to poor performance on gold-standard words. Further experimental details are in Appendix A.

## 4. Identifying a Mean Humor Direction

In prior work, the vector difference between embeddings of word pairs such as *trees:tree* and *she:he* was shown to be highly consistent with human ratings of concepts such as noun plurality or (binary) gender. While it is difficult to identify a word pair that represents humor, a linear direction (i.e., vector) in the embedding may still correlate strongly with mean humor ratings.

Hence, we begin by fitting a simple least-squares linear regression model, predicting the EH mean humor rating for each word in the dataset from its 300-dimensional embedding. The resulting “humor vector” is of course not humorous as a collection of 300 numbers, but its inner-product with other word vectors is found to correlate significantly with humor. Table 1 shows the Pearson correlation coefficients of the predicted humor ratings with the actual EH humor ratings on the 4,997 EH words. The first column uses all EH words for fitting the linear model and for evaluation but is prone to overfitting since the models have 300 dimensions. For the second column, 10-fold cross validation is used to predict the labels (so each fold is predicted separately as hold-out) and then the correlation between the predictions and EH ratings is computed. Finally, the process is repeated 100 times to compute mean correlations and 95% confidence intervals.

| Embedding name | Corr. | Corr. (using CV) |
|---|---:|---:|
| GNEWS (word2vec) | 0.721 | 0.675 ± 0.003 |
| WebSubword (fastText) | 0.767 | 0.729 ± 0.002 |
| WebFast (fastText) | 0.767 | 0.730 ± 0.002 |
| WebGlove (gloVe) | 0.768 | 0.730 ± 0.002 |

*Table 1.* Correlation coefficients compared across embeddings using least-squares regression to predict EH humor ratings. Correlations with 10-fold cross-validation and confidence intervals also reported.

We find that the vectors trained on the Web crawls slightly outperform GNEWS. This may be because of improved training algorithms but more likely the fact that they all use at least sixfold more training data. (We also note that a number of additional fastText and gloVe embeddings, trained on different and generally smaller corpora, were found to have smaller humor rating correlations, presumably due to the fewer tokens for training.) Also consistent with prior work (Bojanowski et al., 2017), the addition of subword information does not significantly change the performance of the fastText model. However, it does conveniently make it possible to compute embeddings of all words and phrases and thus compare it to the GNEWS embedding on the larger dataset (see Section 6).

[Figure: scatter plot of humor rating predictions; x-axis labeled “predicted humor rating”, y-axis labeled “humor rating from EH”; points trend upward.]

*Figure 1.* Humor rating predictions from a linear regression model trained on the WebSubword embedding vectors of words from the EH dataset, plotted against the EH mean humor ratings. See Table 1 for comparison with other embeddings.

Although the set of 5k words used in this evaluation is somewhat limited, it is a verified dataset used in a previous study of single word humor. Additionally, since the words are common to all the embeddings, it allows us to draw a comparison across embeddings. As we will show later, in the broader data collection task we performed we found that many of the words which were rated as funniest were not included in EH and are less commonly used. Nonetheless, linear directions in the word embeddings correlated with the differences in humor ratings across words.

While we see statistically significant correlations between humor vectors and EH ratings in all evaluated embeddings, several questions remain. First, do WEs capture the rich structure in the differences between individuals’ senses of humor? This cannot be answered from the EH data as it only reports aggregate mean ratings, not to mention that it does not contain many of the funniest words. A second and related question is, what is the nature of this correlation? For example, it could be the case that only one topic such as words with sexual connotations are both rated as highly humorous and captured by a linear direction in the word
