like *hippo* and *campus* in *hippocampus*. Incongruity can also be found in words that have surprising combinations of letters or sounds (e.g. in words borrowed from foreign languages). The ‘superiority theory’ can be clearly seen in insulting words such as *twerp*. The ‘relief theory’ explains why humor may be found in taboo subjects and is found in subtle and not-so-subtle sexual and scatological connotations such as *cockamamie* and *nincompoop*. The most humorous words are found to exhibit multiple humor features, i.e., funny words are funny in multiple ways. We show that WEs capture these features to varying extents.

Further, as is understood about humor in general, single-word humor is found to be highly subjective. We show here that individual senses of humor can be well-represented by vectors. In particular, an embedding for each person’s sense of humor can be approximated by averaging vectors of a handful of words they rate as funny, and these vectors generalize to predict preferences for future unrated words. When clustered, these vector groups differ significantly by gender and age, and thus identify demographic differences in humor taste. We further introduce a “know-your-audience” test which shows that these sense-of-humor vectors can also be meaningfully differentiated using only a handful of words per person and generalize to make predictions on new unrated words.

While it would be easy to use Netflix-style collaborative filtering to predict humor ratings, WEs are shown to *generalize*: given humor ratings on some words, vector representations are able to predict mean humor ratings, humor features and differences in sense of humor on test words that have no humor ratings.

**Implications.** Our study suggests that some of the fundamental features of humor are computationally *simple* (e.g., linear directions in WEs). This further suggests that the difficulty in understanding humor may lie in understanding rich domains such as language. If humor is simple, then humorous sentences may be hard for computers due to inadequate sentence embeddings: if you don’t speak Greek, you won’t understand a simple joke in Greek. Conversely, it also suggests that as language models improve, they may naturally represent humor (or at least some types of humor) without requiring significant innovation.

Furthermore, understanding single-word humor is a possible first step in understanding humor as it occurs in language. A natural next step would be to analyze humor is phrases and then short sentences, and indeed the 120,000 tokens rated include 45,353 multi-word tokens and the set of 216 tokens rated funniest includes 41 multi-word tokens.

**Organization.** Section 2 defines humor features drawn from humor theories and briefly discusses related work. Section 3 describes the word embeddings and data used. Section 4 covers prediction of aggregate humor ratings from embedding vectors. Section 5 uses embedding representations to uncover group humor differences using unsupervised learning. Section 6 analyzes how word embeddings capture each of the theory-based humor features, while Section 7 analyzes how WEs capture differences in individual senses of humor.

## 2. Relevant Features from Humor Theories

In order to identify traces of single word humor in WEs, we first had to identify features of humor to look for. Defining humor, however, is a problem that was difficult enough to give food for thought to some of the most famous thinkers in history. Therefore, aware of our limitations, we do not seek to offer a definition of our own, but rather rely on the multiple existing theories from the social sciences, dating at least as far back as the philosophers of ancient Greece. Plato, followed by Hobbes and Descartes, all contributed to a *superiority theory* view of humor, which was formalized in the 20th century (Morreall, 2016). However, since the 18th century, two new theories of humor surfaced and became much more widely acceptable: the *relief theory* and the *incongruity theory*.

The *relief theory* offers a physiological explanation, which argues that laughter functions as a pressure relief for the nervous system, sometimes as a means to address taboo subjects that cause such stress. Proponents of this theory were Lord Shaftesbury (1709), Herbert Spencer (1911) and Sigmund Freud (1905). *Incongruity theory* explains humor as a reaction to moments of uncertainty, in which two non-related issues which seem to be unfitting are juxtaposed in one sentence or event, but are then resolved. This theory could be seen as an explanation of the intuitive importance of punch lines in common jokes, where the “set up” builds an expectation that the “punch line” violates. Albeit confusing or disorienting logically, the revelation of the incongruity creates a humorous event when this contradiction violates an expectation, in a harmless, benevolent way. Among the supporters of this method were Kant (1790), Kierkegaard (1846) and Schopenhauer (1844).

These theories are also relevant to word humor. Based on these theories and other discussions of word humor (Beard, 2009; Bown, 2015), we consider the following six features of word humor:

1. Humorous *sound* (regardless of meaning): certain words such as *bugaboo* or *razzmatazz* are funny regardless of their meaning. This feature is related to the incongruity theory in that an unusual combination of sounds that normally do not go together can make a word sound funny. This feature is also consistent with the comedy intuition of Neil Simon, Monty Python, Dr.
