*Table 2.* Raters were clustered based on their sense-of-humor embeddings, i.e., the average vector of the words they rated funny. For each cluster, the single words that differentiate each rating cluster are shown together with scores on six humor features and demographics. Note that the demographics differences emerged from clustering the sense-of-humor vectors—demographics were not used during clustering.

|  | Cluster 1 | Cluster 2 | Cluster 3 | Cluster 4 | Cluster 5 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| word 1 | gobbledegook | tootsies | clusterfuck | whakapapa | dickheads |
| word 2 | kerfuffle | fufu | batshit | codswallop | twat |
| word 3 | hullaballoo | squeegee | crapola | dabbawalas | cocking |
| word 4 | razzmatazz | doohickey | apeshit | pooja | titties |
| word 5 | gazumped | weenies | fugly | spermatogenesis | asshattery |
| word 6 | boondoggle | muumuu | wanker | diktats | nutted |
| word 7 | galumphing | thingies | schmuck | annulus | dong |
| word 8 | skedaddle | wigwams | arseholes | chokecherry | wanker |
| word 9 | guffawing | weaner | dickheads | piggeries | cockling |
| word 10 | bamboozle | peewee | douchebaggery | viagogo | pussyfooting |
| sound | **1.11** | 1.02 | 0.97 | 1.02 | 0.90 |
| scatological | 0.80 | 0.99 | **1.15** | 0.89 | 1.14 |
| colloqial | 0.95 | 1.00 | **1.14** | 0.87 | 1.02 |
| insults | 0.86 | 0.90 | **1.23** | 0.84 | 1.12 |
| juxtaposition | 0.89 | 0.86 | 0.99 | 1.10 | **1.13** |
| sexual | 0.81 | 0.91 | 0.99 | 1.00 | **1.25** |
| female % | 70.3%* | 57.5% | 53.8% | 52.4% | 35.2%* |
| mean age | 38.6 | 37.4 | 42.3* | 37.2 | 34.7* |

**Bolded numbers** represent the highest mean value obtained for that feature in any of the clusters.  
\*statistically significant difference with p-value < $10^{-6}$.

embedding, perhaps due to the fact that they often appear in similar contexts. To what extent are more subtle features such as humorous sounding words also captured? These questions motivated the collection of our crowdsourced datasets, focusing on differences in individual-based humor ratings and humor feature annotations.

## 5. Clustering Sense-of-Humor Embeddings

It is well known that humor differs across groups, cultures, and individuals. We hypothesize that an individual’s sense of humor can be successfully embedded as a vector as well. More specifically, if each person’s “sense-of-humor” embedding is taken to be the vector average of words they rate as funny, this may predict which new, unrated words different people would find funny.

For exploratory purposes, we next clustered the raters based on their sense-of-humor embeddings, i.e., the normalized average GNEWS vector of the 36 words they rated positively. We used K-means++ in sci-kit learn with default parameters (Pedregosa et al., 2011).

For each cluster $i$ and each word $w$, we define a relative mean $\mu_i(w)$ for that cluster to be the difference between the fraction of raters in that cluster who rated that word positively and the overall fraction of raters who rated that word positively. Table 2 shows, for each cluster, the ten single words with maximum relative mean for that cluster (phrases are not displayed to save space). Table 2 also shows, for each feature of humor, the mean feature score of words rated positively by the individuals in that cluster, normalized by the overall mean. The number of clusters was chosen to be $K = 5$ using the elbow method (Thorndike, 1953), though different $K$ values, different embeddings, and different random seeds exhibit qualitatively similar clusters.

The emergent demographic differences between the clusters that emerged are surprising, given that the clusters were formed using a small number of word ratings (not demographics). First, Cluster 1 is significantly female-skewed (compared to overall 53.4% female), Cluster 5 is male-skewed and younger, and Cluster 3 is older. How statistically significant are the age and gender differences between the clusters? We estimate this by randomly shuffling and partitioning the users into groups with the same sizes as the clusters repeatedly $10^7$ times and computing statistics of the cluster means. From this, the 95% confidence interval for mean age was (36.9, 39.2) and for percentage female was (48.5, 58.2). Hence, the significant age differences were clusters 3 and 5 and the significant gender differences were in clusters 1 and 5. Moreover these four differences were greater than any observed in the $10^7$ samples.
