---

# Humor in Word Embeddings:  
# Cockamamie Gobbledegook for Nincompoops

**WARNING: This paper contains words that people rated humorous including many that are offensive in nature.**

---

Limor Gultchin ¹ Genevieve Patterson ² Nancy Baym ³ Nathaniel Swinger ⁴ Adam Tauman Kalai ³

## Abstract

While humor is often thought to be beyond the reach of Natural Language Processing, we show that several aspects of single-word humor correlate with simple linear directions in Word Embeddings. In particular: (a) the word vectors capture multiple aspects discussed in humor theories from various disciplines; (b) each individual’s sense of humor can be represented by a vector, which can predict differences in people’s senses of humor on new, unrated, words; and (c) upon clustering humor ratings of multiple demographic groups, different humor preferences emerge across the different groups. Humor ratings are taken from the work of Engelthaler and Hills (2017) as well as from an original crowdsourcing study of 120,000 words. Our dataset further includes annotations for the theoretically-motivated humor features we identify.

## 1. Introduction

Detecting and generating humor is a notoriously difficult task for AI systems. While Natural Language Processing (NLP) is making impressive advances in many frontiers such as machine translation and question answering, NLP progress on humor has been slow. This reflects the fact that humans rarely agree upon what is humorous. Multiple types of humor exist, and numerous theories were developed to explain what makes something funny. Recent research supporting the existence of single-word humor (Engelthaler & Hills, 2017; Westbury et al., 2016) defines a more manageable scope to study with existing machine learning tools. Word Embeddings (WEs) have been shown to capture numerous properties of words (e.g., Mikolov et al., 2013a;b); coupled with single-word humor as a possible research direction, it is natural to study if and how WEs can capture this type of humor. To assess the ability of WEs to explain individual word humor, we draw on a long history of humor theories and put them to the test.

To many readers, it may not be apparent that individual words can be amusing in and of themselves, devoid of context. However, Engelthaler & Hills (2017), henceforth referred to as EH, found some words consistently rated as more humorous than others, through a crowdsourced study of about five thousand nouns. We first use their publicly available 5k mean word-humor ratings to identify a “humor vector,” i.e., a linear direction, in several WEs that correlate (over 0.7) with these 5k mean humor ratings. While these correlations establish statistical significance, little insight is obtained into how the embeddings capture different aspects of humor and differences between people’s senses of humor.

To complete this picture, we performed crowdsourcing studies to create additional datasets which we make publicly available: (a) beginning with a set of 120k common words and phrases chosen from a word embedding, a crowdsourcing filtering process yielded a set of 8,120 and a further set of 216 words¹ (in Appendix B) rated most humorous, (b) over 1,500 crowd workers rated these latter 216 words through six-way comparisons each yielding a personal first choice out of dozens of other personally highly-ranked words, and (c) 1,500 words (including highly-rated words drawn from these sets) were each annotated by multiple workers according to six humor features drawn from the aforementioned theories of humor.

Our analysis suggests that individual-word humor indeed possesses many aspects of humor that have been discussed in general theories of humor, and that many of these aspects of humor are captured by WEs. For example, ‘incongruity theory,’ which we discuss shortly, can be found in words which juxtapose surprising combinations of words

¹University of Oxford ²TRASH ³Microsoft Research ⁴Lexington High School. Correspondence to: Limor Gultchin <limor.gultchin@jesus.ox.ac.uk>.

*Proceedings of the 36^th^ International Conference on Machine Learning*, Long Beach, California, PMLR 97, 2019. Copyright 2019 by the author(s).

¹These words, including *gobbledegook* and *nincompoops*, were rated as more humorous than the words in the EH study, which used common words from psychology experiments. The top-rated EH words were *booty, tit, booby, hooter,* and *nitwit*.
