Schopenhauer, A. *Arthur Schopenhauer: The World as Will and Presentation: Volume I (translation by R. B. Haldane, 1888.* Routledge, 1844.

Shahaf, D., Horvitz, E., and Mankoff, R. Inside jokes: Identifying humorous cartoon captions. In *Proceedings of the 21th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining*, pp. 1065–1074. ACM, 2015.

Simon, N. *The Sunshine Boys: A Comedy in Two Acts.* Samuel French, Inc., 1974.

Spencer, H. *Essays on Education, Etc.* London: Dent, 1911.

Stock, O. and Strapparava, C. Hahacronym: Humorous agents for humorous acronyms. *Humor*, 16(3):297–314, 2003.

Strauss, U., Grzybek, P., and Altmann, G. Word length and word frequency. In *Contributions to the science of text and language*, pp. 277–294. Springer, 2007.

Thorndike, R. L. Who belongs in the family? *Psychometrika*, 18(4):267–276, 1953.

tvtropes.org. *Just For Fun / Inherently Funny Words*, 2017. http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/JustForFun/InherentlyFunnyWords, accessed 2017-07-25.

Van Hee, C., Lefever, E., and Hoste, V. Semeval-2018 task 3: Irony detection in english tweets. In *Proceedings of The 12th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation*, pp. 39–50, 2018.

West, R. and Horvitz, E. Reverse-engineering satire, or “paper on computational humor accepted despite making serious advances”. In *Proceedings of AAAI 2019*, 2019.

Westbury, C., Shaoul, C., Moroschan, G., and Ramscar, M. Telling the worlds least funny jokes: On the quantification of humor as entropy. *Journal of Memory and Language*, 86:141 – 156, 2016. ISSN 0749-596X. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jml.2015.09.001. URL http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749596X15001023.
