for 60% of pairs of people in our data. In other words, 60% of pairs of people had the property that neither one chose the other’s funniest word even in the first round (of the 216 words study). This highlights the fact that individual notions of humor indeed differ significantly.

Given the two sets of 35 other words each participant rated positively, which we call the *training words*, and given words $\{w_1, w_2\}$ which we call the *test words*, the goal is to predict which participants rated $w_1$ or $w_2$ funniest. Just as a good comedian would choose which joke to tell to which audience, we use the WE to predict which person rated which test word as funny, based solely on the training words. For example, the training sets might be {*bamboozle*, *bejeezus*, ..., *wigwams*, *wingnuts*} and {*batshit*, *boobies*, ..., *weaner*, *whakapapa*} and test set to match might be the words {*poppycock*, *lollygag*}.

*Table 3.* Success rates at know-your-audience tests, which test the ability of sense-of-humor embeddings to distinguish different raters based on sense of humor and predict which of two words each would find funny.

| Know-your-audience test | Success rate |
|---|---:|
| Easy: disjoint sets of 35 training words. | 78.1% |
| Normal: 35 training words. | 68.2% |
| Hard: 5 training words. | 65.0% |

To test the embedding we simply average training word vectors and see which matches best to the test words. In particular, if $\vec{r}_1$ and $\vec{r}_2$ are the two training word vector averages and $\vec{v}_1$ and $\vec{v}_2$ are the corresponding test word vectors, we match $\vec{r}_1$ to $\vec{v}_1$ if and only if,

$$
\|\vec{r}_1 - \vec{v}_1\|^2 + \|\vec{r}_2 - \vec{v}_2\|^2 < \|\vec{r}_1 - \vec{v}_2\|^2 + \|\vec{r}_2 - \vec{v}_1\|^2
$$

$$
0 < (\vec{r}_1 - \vec{r}_2) \cdot (\vec{v}_1 - \vec{v}_2)
$$

Simple algebra shows the above two inequalities are equivalent. Thus, the success rate on the test is the fraction of eligible pairs for which $(\vec{r}_1 - \vec{r}_2) \cdot (\vec{v}_1 - \vec{v}_2) > 0$. Note that this test is quite challenging as it involves prediction on two completely unrated words, the analog of what is referred to as a “cold start” in collaborative filtering (i.e., predicting ratings on a new unrated movie).

We also consider an easy and a hard version of this know-your-audience test. In the easy version, a pair of people is chosen who have disjoint training sets of positively rated words, indicating distinct senses of humors. In the hard version, we use as training words only the five words each person rated 2. It is important to note that no ratings of the test words (or the other participants) are used, and hence it tests the WE’s ability to generalize (as opposed to collaborative filtering). The test results given in Table 3 were calculated by Brute force over all eligible pairs in the data (1,004 for the easy test and 818,790 for the normal and hard tests).

## 8. Conclusions

Can NLP-humor be closer than we think? This work suggests that many aspects of humor, including individual differences, may in fact be easier than expected to capture using machine learning – in particular many correlate with linear directions in Word Embeddings. In particular, each individual’s sense-of-humor can be easily embedded using a handful of ratings, and that differences in these embeddings generalizes to predict different ratings on unrated words. We have shown that word humor possesses many features motivated by theories of humor more broadly, and that these features are represented in WEs to varying degrees.

WEs are of course only one lens through which single word humor can be studied. Phonotactic, morphological and orthographic characteristics of humor can certainly be used to complement the WE approach. However, in this study, we show that WEs, popular NLP tools, are already enough to achieve meaningful progress in explaining single word humor. Furthermore, we offer our originally collected datasets, which we have made publicly available, as a useful contribution to future projects looking to complement and extend ours.

There are numerous possible applications of word humor to natural language humor more generally. As discussed, comedians and writers are aware and indeed use such word choice to amplify humorous effects in their work. Our findings could therefore contribute to building aiding tools for creative writing tasks. Similarly, humorous word detection may help in identifying and generating humorous text. Moreover, our ratings could be used by text synthesis systems such as chat-bots which use WEs to tweak them towards or away from different types of humor (e.g., with or without sexual connotations), depending on the application at hand and training data.

Finally, one approach to improving AI recognition and generation of humor is to start with humorous words, then move on to humorous phrases and sentences, and finally to humor in broader contexts. Our work may be viewed as a first step in this programme.

**Acknowledgements.** We would like to thank Kai-Wei Chang and anonymous reviewers for their helpful comments.

## References

Barbieri, F. and Saggion, H. Modelling irony in twitter. In *EACL*, pp. 56–64, 2014.
