that WebSubword is trained using subword information and can therefore be evaluated on virtually any word or phrase, whereas WebFast like every other model in this paper can only be evaluated on words in its vocabulary. Finally, we consider an embedding trained on a similar web crawl of 840 billion tokens using the gloVe algorithm, referred to as WebGlove (Pennington et al., 2014).

### 3.2. The Engelthaler-Hill Dataset

Our first source of data is the EH dataset, which is publicly available (Engelthaler & Hills, 2017). It provides mean ratings on 4,997 single words, each rated by approximately 35 raters on a scale of 1-5. They further break down the means by gender (binary, M and F) and age (over 32 and under 32). However, since the EH data is in aggregate form, it is not possible to study questions of individual humor senses beyond age and gender.

### 3.3. Our Crowdsourcing Studies

The EH data serves the purpose of finding a humor direction correlating with mean humor ratings. However, in order to better understand the differences between people’s preferences among the funniest of words, we sought out a smaller set of more humorous words that could be labeled by more people. Eligible words were lower-case words or phrases, i.e., strings of the twenty-six lower-case Latin letters with at most one underscore representing a space. In our study, we omitted strings that contained digits or other non-alphabetic characters.

English-speaking labelers were recruited on Amazon’s Mechanical Turk platform. All labelers identified themselves as fluent in English, and 98% of them identified English as their native language. All workers were U.S.-based, except for the results in Table 4 of the appendix. We study a subset of 120,000 words and phrases from GNEWS, chosen to be the most frequent alphabetic lower-case entries from the embedding. While our study included both words and phrases, for brevity, in the tables in this paper we often present only single words. The list of 120,000 strings is included in the public dataset we are making available alongside this paper.[^2]

**Humor rating study.** Our series of humor rating studies culminated in a set of 216 words with high mean humor ratings, which were judged by 1,678 U.S.-based raters. In each study, each participant was presented with random sets of six words and asked to select the one they found most humorous. In the first study only, the interface also enabled an individual to indicate that they found none of the six words humorous. We treat the selected word, if any, as being labeled positive and the words not selected as being labeled negative. Prior work on rating the humor in non-words found similar results for a forced-choice design and a design in which participants rated individual words on a Likert-scale (Westbury et al., 2016). To prevent fatigue, workers were shown words in daily-limited batches of up to fifty sextuple comparisons over the course of weeks. No worker labeled more than 16 batches.

We refer to the three humor-judging studies by the numbers of words used: 120k, 8k, and 216. In the 120k study, each string was shown to at least three different participants in three different sextuples. 80,062 strings were not selected by any participant, consistent with EH’s finding that the vast majority of words are not found to be funny. The 8k study applied the same procedure (except without a “none are humorous” option) to the 8,120 words that were chosen as the most humorous in a majority of the sextuples they were shown. Each word was shown to at least 15 different participants in random sextuples. To filter down to 216 words, we selected the words with the greatest fraction of positive labels. However, several near duplicate words appeared in this list. To avoid asking people to compare such similar words in the third stage, amongst words with the same stem, the word with the greatest score was selected. For instance, among the four words *wank*, *wanker*, *wankers*, and *wanking*, only *wanker* was selected for the third round as it had the greatest fraction of positive votes. The 216 words are shown in Appendix B.

In the 216 study, each participant selected not only a set of 36 “humorous” words, but further sets of 6 “more humorous” words and a single most humorous word, as follows. The 216 words were first presented randomly in 36 sextuples comparing the 216 words. In the same task, the 36 chosen words from these sextuples were shown randomly in 6 sextuples. The selected words were presented in a final sextuple from which they selected a single word. We associate a rating of 3 with the single funniest word selected at the end, a rating of 2 with the five other words shown in the final sextuple, a rating of 1 with the thirty words selected that did not receive a rating of 2 or 3, and a rating of 0 with the 180 unselected words. This process was chosen for efficiency as it requires only 43 clicks per user to identify three tiers of words that are rated highly. However, the randomness in the initial permutation of each user’s words introduces noise into the ratings. Nonetheless, it is easy to see that if a participant answers consistent with a secret internal ordering π, the expected values of the ratings (0-3, as defined above) of words would also be ordered according to π.

**Feature annotation study.** The feature annotation study drew on the same worker pool. 1,500 words were chosen from the original 120,000 words by including the 216 words discussed above plus random words (half from the 8k study

[^2]: https://github.com/limorigu/Cockamamie-Gobbledegook
