Seuss and the like, who discuss funny-sounding words and feature them in their works (see, e.g. Bown, 2015).

2. *Juxtaposition*/Unexpected incongruity: certain words are composed of terms which are otherwise completely unrelated. For example, there is little relation between the *hippocampus* part of the brain and the mostly unrelated words *hippo* and *campus*. This feature is motivated by incongruity theory.

3. *Sexual* connotation: some words are explicitly sexual (such as *sex*) or have sexual connotations (such as *thrust reverser*). The fact that some people find those words funny can be explained by the ‘relief theory’, which suggests humor is a venting mechanism for social taboos. This was also discussed in the context of computational humor by Mihalcea et al. (Mihalcea & Strapparava, 2005).

4. *Scatological* connotation: some words have connotations related to excrement to varying degrees, such as *nincompoop* or *apeshit*. The justification of this feature is similar to the sexual connotation feature above.

5. *Insulting* words: in the context of word humor, the superiority theory suggests that insulting words may be humorous to some people.

6. *Colloquial* words: extremely informal words such as *crapola* can be surprising and provide relief in part due to their unusually informal nature.

We study the extents to which these features correlate with humor and how well WEs capture each one. Humor is known to vary by culture and gender, and EH analyzed age and gender differences in word humor. They also found strong correlations between humor ratings and word frequency and length, with shorter and less frequent words tending to be rated higher. This is interesting because word length and word frequency are strongly anti-correlated (Strauss et al., 2007).

## 2.1. Related Work in Computational Humor

Many of these features of humor have been considered in prior work on computational humor (see, e.g. Mihalcea & Strapparava, 2005), including early work such as HAHAcronym (Stock & Strapparava, 2003), which focused on producing humorous acronyms. More recently, Van Hee et al. (2018) focused on humor detection, Barbieri & Saggion (2014) utilized Twitter for the automatic detection of irony and social media was further used to explore automatic classification of types of humor, such as anecdotes, fantasy, insult, irony, etc. (Raz, 2012). Other work studies visual humor (Chandrasekaran et al., 2016) or humorous image captions (Shahaf et al., 2015; Radev et al., 2015). Other recent work has studied satire (West & Horvitz, 2019). WEs have been used as features in a number of NLP humor systems (e.g. Chen & Soo, 2018; Hossain et al., 2017; Joshi et al., 2016), though the humor inherent in individual words was not studied.

## 2.2. Other Work on Individual-Word Humor

In addition to EH, another psychology study found consistent mean humor differences in *non-word* strings (Westbury et al., 2016). Outside of research, numerous lists of inherently funny words compiled by comedians and authors have been published (e.g. Beard, 2009; tvtropes.org, 2017).

Finally, some comedians recommend humorous word choice. For instance, the character Willie in the Neil Simon play and subsequent film *The Sunshine Boys* says:

> Fifty-seven years in this business, you learn a few things. You know what words are funny and which words are not funny. Alka Seltzer is funny. You say “Alka Seltzer” you get a laugh. . . . Words with k in them are funny. Casey Stengel, that’s a funny name. Robert Taylor is not funny. Cupcake is funny. Tomato is not funny. Cookie is funny. Cucumber is funny. Car keys. Cleveland is funny. Maryland is not funny. Then, there’s chicken. Chicken is funny. Pickle is funny. All with a k. Ls are not funny. Ms are not funny. (Simon, 1974) (as cited in Kortum, 2013).

This suggests that understanding funny words in isolation may be helpful as a feature in identifying or generating longer humorous texts.

# 3. Data

As is common, we will abuse terminology and refer to both the words and multi-word tokens from the embeddings as words, for brevity. When we wish to distinguish one word from multiple words, we write *single words* or *phrases*.

## 3.1. Embeddings

WEs fit each word to a $d$-dimensional Euclidean vector based on text corpora of hundreds of billions of words. We consider several publicly-available pre-trained embeddings all using $d = 300$ dimensions, trained on news and web data using different algorithms. The first embedding we consider, referred to as GNEWS, is the well-studied WE trained using the word2vec algorithm on about 100 billion tokens from Google News (Mikolov et al., 2013a). The second two embeddings, referred to as WebSubword and WebFast, were both trained using the fastText algorithm on a web crawl of 600 billion tokens (Mikolov et al., 2018). The difference is
