veloping several algorithms that combine ratings data with other sources of information such as the geographic location of the user. Weighted majority voting is used to combine recommendations from different sources.

In their recent paper, Herlocker et. al. [12] divide neighbor-based CF algorithms into three steps: i) weighting possible neighbors, ii) selecting neighborhoods and, iii) producing a prediction from a weighted combination of neighbors ratings. They explore alternative methods for each step and propose Spearman (rank-based) correlation weighting as an alternative to Pearson correlations and a “significance weighting” based on the number of items two users have rated in common. To compute predictions they find that subtracting global means improves performance, while conversion to Z-scores does not. To measure accuracy, they propose Receiver Operator Characteristic (ROC) sensitivity from decision-support theory.

Many CF researchers have recognized the problem of sparseness: many values in the ratings matrix are null since all users do not rate all items. Computing distances between users is complicated by the fact that the number of items users have rated in common is not constant. An alternative to inserting global means for null values or significance weighting is Singular Value Decomposition (SVD), which reduces the dimensionality of the ratings matrix and identifies latent factors in the data.

An application of SVD in the context of document retrieval has been patented and is widely known as Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI) [21, 6, 8, 15]. In LSI, SVD is applied to factor the non-square term-document frequency matrix into orthogonal factor matrices with corresponding singular values. The largest singular values correspond to the most significant factor weightings, which can be used to create a dimension-reducing linear projection of the original data.

Billus and Pazzani [3] and Pryor [27] have applied SVD to CF in different ways. Billus and Pazzani [3] treat CF as a classification problem and discretize ratings into a small number of classes (eg. two: like vs. dislike). Say there are $n$ users, $k$ items that form the basis for recommendation, and $r$ items to consider recommending. Let $m = k + r$. They discretize the $n \times m$ original ratings matrix into a Boolean feature matrix $F$, with a row for each combination of user and category. They apply SVD to $F$ to reduce its dimensionality from $2n \times m$ to $v \times m$. The principal vectors are used to project each item to a point in the $v$-dimensional space.

Billus and Pazzani then create $n$ feedforward neural networks, one for each user in the database. They use back-propagation to train each network using $k$ $v$-dimensional vectors (one vector for each item rated by that user). After training, each network will map a $v$-dimensional vector representing an unseen item to a predicted rating for that item. Using the Movielens dataset, they demonstrate that their method yields reasonable prediction accuracy but note that it is significantly more computationally expensive than other methods due to the need to train a neural network for each user.

Pryor [27] recommends web pages based on Boolean visit patterns and 7-point discrete ratings. Applying SVD to the visit matrix produces a set of vectors corresponding to features in the matrix. He found that using only the most significant features (as measured by their singular values) reduces dimensionality and provides an effective distance metric.

In Eigentaste we address sparseness using universal queries, which insure that all users rate a common set of $k$ gauge items. Since the resulting submatrix is dense, we directly compute the square symmetric correlation matrix and then do a linear projection using Principle Component Analysis, a closely-related factor analysis technique first described by Pearson in 1901 [24, 5, 20, 17]. Like SVD, PCA reduces dimensionality by optimally projecting highly correlated data along a smaller number of orthogonal dimensions.

## 3 The Eigentaste Algorithm

In this section we describe the generic Eigentaste algorithm.

### 3.1 Notation and Terminology

|  |  |
|---|---|
| $U$ | set of all users in database |
| $J$ | set of all items to be rated and/or recommended |
| $G$ | set of items in the gauge set |
| $n$ | number of users, $|U|$ |
| $m$ | total number of items, $|J|$ |
| $k$ | number of items in the gauge set, $|G|$ (thus there are $m - k$ items available for recommendation) |
| $R$ | $n \times m$ matrix of raw user ratings |
| $A$ | $n \times k$ normalized matrix of user ratings of items in $G$ |
| $C$ | $k \times k$ correlation matrix of the $k$ items in the gauge set |
| $E$ | $k \times k$ orthogonal matrix of eigenvectors of $C$ |
| $\Lambda$ | $k \times k$ diagonal matrix of eigenvalues of $C$ |
| $\tilde{r}_{ij}$ | raw rating of item $j$ by user $i$; $\tilde{r}_{ij} \in [\tilde{r}_{\min}, \tilde{r}_{\max}] \cup \emptyset$ |
| $r_{ij}$ | normalized rating of item $j$ by user $i$ |
| $p_{ij}$ | predicted rating of item $j$ for user $i$ |
| $\mu_j$ | average rating of item $j$ |
| $J_i$ | set of items rated by user $i$ |
| $U_j$ | set of users having rated item $j$ ($\forall j \in G$, $|U_j| = n$) |

### 3.2 Normalizing Ratings

The $n \times m$ matrix of raw ratings from $n$ users and $m$ items is $R$. We selected $k$ of these items to form the common gauge set (all valid users rated all items in the gauge set).
