jokes. Figure 2 is an illustration of the recursive rectangular clustering scheme in 2 dimensions, using 4 levels.

We registered the Jester site with a number of search engines. By the end of November 1998, about a month and a half of the system inception, we had around 150 registered users. On 2 December, at 9:25am, Jester was featured in the Culture section of Wired News [32]. Online news site like Yahoo, Excite, and Netscape News went up with the same story.. This produced a sudden influx of 41350 page requests. Since system process time grew linearly with the number of users, Jester 1.0 was quickly overwhelmed. It crashed and was offline for several days.

Our experience with this traffic overload motivated us to develop a more scalable algorithm, Eigentaste. Jester 2.0 was released on March 1st, 1999. Its graphics were redesigned, we added 30 new jokes to the system so that $m = 100$, and the gauge set was reduced to 10 jokes.

## 5 Results

### 5.1 Normalized Mean Absolute Error (NMAE)

The error metric used most often in the CF literature is the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) [30, 4, 26]. If $p_{ij}$ is the prediction for how user $i$ will rate item $j$, the MAE for user $i$ is defined as

$$
\mathrm{MAE} = \frac{1}{c} \sum_{j=1}^{c} |\tilde{r}_{ij} - p_{ij}|
$$

where $c$ is the number of items user $i$ has rated. MAE for a set of users is the average MAE over all members of that set.

Since our numerical rating scale gives ratings over the range $[-10,+10]$, we normalize to express errors as percentages of full scale: Normalized Mean Absolute Error, is:

$$
\mathrm{NMAE} = \frac{\mathrm{MAE}}{\tilde{r}_{\max} - \tilde{r}_{\min}}
$$

Herlocker et al. [12] discusses a variety of other error measures. In the Appendix, we consider NMAE from a theoretical perspective.

### 5.2 The Jester Dataset

Since March 1999, Jester has collected approximately 2,500,000 ratings from 57,000 users. There are 10 jokes in the gauge set and 90 non-gauge jokes. The average number of ratings per user is 46. We based our experiments on 18,000 random users from this sample. The Jester Dataset, including anonymous ratings from these users, is available upon request.[^3]

For the experiments below, we randomly divide the users into two disjoint sets: training and test. We use data from the training set to compute predictions using each algorithm (ie, to “train” the system). Data from the test set is then used to evaluate efficiency and accuracy.

### 5.3 POP Algorithm

The simplest recommendation algorithm is to treat all users as coming from the same global cluster and to base recommendations for all users on global mean ratings. We used this “POP” algorithm as our control case. (Note: The name “POP” is taken from [4]).

POP predicts ratings for every joke based on its global average. We use the training set to compute the global average and the test set to evaluate the predictions. POP yields NMAE of 0.203.

### 5.4 Nearest Neighbor Algorithms

The nearest neighbor algorithm and its variants are the ones most widely referenced in the literature. The formula generally used to find the predicted rating $p_{ij}$ for user $i$ and item $j$ is

$$
p_{ij} = \bar{r}_i + \kappa \sum_{k=1}^{n} w(i,p)(\tilde{r}_{pj} - \bar{r}_p)
$$

where $\bar{r}_i$ is the average joke rating for user $i$, and $\kappa$ is a normalizing factor ensuring that the absolute value of the weights sum to 1. The weights $w(i,p)$ can reflect distances, correlations, or similarities between user $i$ and other users that have rated the same items. Most commonly, $w(i,p)$ is the Pearson correlation coefficient between users $i$ and $p$:

$$
w(i,p) =
\frac{\sum_j (\tilde{r}_{ij} - \bar{r}_i)(\tilde{r}_{pj} - \bar{r}_p)}
{\sqrt{\sum_j (\tilde{r}_{ij} - \bar{r}_i)^2 \sum_j (\tilde{r}_{pj} - \bar{r}_p)^2}}
$$

where the summations over $j$ include items that both user $i$ and user $p$ have rated in common [4, 30].

We also implemented a weighted nearest neighbor algorithm. We used a function of Euclidean distance from user $i$ to user $p$ as the weight $w(i,p)$, and $\kappa = \sum_p w(i,p)$. Specifically, if we are interested in $q$ nearest neighbors, $w(i,p) = d(i,q+1) - d(i,p)$. This ensures that $i$’s closest neighbor has the largest weight.

[^3]: To request this data, please email your contact information and a description of intended research to the first author.
