measurement [1] and user-interface advantages as discussed in the conclusion.

Eigentaste splits computations into offline and online phases. Offline, Eigentaste uses principal component analysis for optimal dimensionality reduction and then clusters users in the lower dimensional subspace. The online phase uses eigenvectors to project new users into clusters and a lookup table to recommend appropriate items so that run time is independent of the number of users in the database.

This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews related work. Section 3 introduces the Eigentaste algorithm, PCA, and our recursive rectangular clustering method. Section 4 describes the application of Eigentaste to Jester, a CF system for recommending jokes, including a description of the bootstrapping process. Section 5 proposes the normalized Mean Absolute Error (NMAE) metric and compares performance of several algorithms on the Jester dataset in terms of accuracy and efficiency. Section 7 reviews the results and discusses future work.

## 2 Related Work

In this section we review only a small sample of the papers on Collaborative Filtering. Rich [29] is considered an early reference. There is a long history of patents related to CF, ranging from [14] in 1989 to [9] in 2000. In 1992, D. Goldberg et. al. coined the term “collaborative filtering” in the context of a system for filtering email using binary category flags [10]. Excellent surveys of research can be found in [31, 12, 7].

Shardanand and Maes [30] designed a collaborative filtering system for music (Ringo) and experimented with a number of measures of distance between users, including Pearson correlation, constrained Pearson correlation, and vector cosine. They compare four different recommendation algorithms based on the Mean Absolute Error of predictions. All of their neighborhood-based algorithms require time linear in the number of users.

GroupLens is a pioneering and ongoing effort in collaborative filtering [28, 18, 19, 12]. The GroupLens team initially implemented a neighborhood-based CF system for rating Usenet articles. They used a 1-5 integer rating scale and computed distance using Pearson correlations.

One of the newsgroups that GroupLens considered was rec.humor, an unmoderated newsgroup that receives hundreds of posts a day, most of them not very funny (not that rec.humor.funny is much better). This was reflected in the ratings, where 75% of the jokes received the lowest possible rating of 1 (not funny). The GroupLens team reported correlation values for 500 pairs of users; the relatively high value of these correlations was used to claim that users generally agree on the ratings of jokes, in contrast to the recipes posted on rec.food.recipes.

However, the predominance of “not funny” ratings in the data skewed all correlations dramatically upward. The GroupLens team did note the existence of a substantial number of low and negative correlations in rec.humor, suggesting that there may be indeed be some variance in user tastes. To evaluate Eigentaste, we also use humor as a domain but use jokes with a much higher variance. There are a number of differences between GroupLens and Eigentaste.

Breese et. al. [4] classify collaborative filtering algorithms into two classes: Memory-based and Model-based. Memory-based algorithms operate over the entire user database to make predictions. The most common memory-based model are based on the notion of nearest-neighbors, using a variety of distance measures. Model-based systems are based on a compact model inferred from the data. In this framework Eigentaste would be considered Model-based. Breese et. al. compare a number of algorithms including Bayesian clustering and decision-tree models. They show that Bayesian network and correlation models are the best-performing but do not discuss computational complexity.

Pennock and Horvitz [26] suggest Personality Diagnosis (PD), a latent variable approach based on computing the probability that a new user is of an underlying “personality type,” and that user preferences are a manifestation of this personality type. The personality type of a given user is taken to be the vector of “true” ratings for items the user has seen. A true rating differs from the actual rating given by a user in Gaussian noise. Given the personality type of a user A, PD finds the probability that the given user is of the same personality type as other users in the system, and thus the probability that the user will like some new item. To combat the problem common to memory-based models of increased computational effort as the set of existing users grow, Pennock and Horvitz explore a Value of Information (VOI) computation which maximizes predictive value while minimizing the number of explicit ratings needed from a user. This approach requires the specification of utility functions. However, VOI can also be used offline to “prune” the data in the system in order to reduce the amount of data stored while maintaining maximum predictive power.

In a different paper, Pennock and Horvitz [25] propose an axiomatic foundation for collaborative filtering. CF makes preference predictions by combining preferences of existing users. The authors note that “aggregation” of preferences has been studied in Social Choice theory since the 1960’s [2]. They argue that only a single nearest-neighbor model will satisfy the axiomatic conditions.

Delgado [7] takes an agent-based approach to CF, de-
