# Eigentaste: A Constant Time Collaborative Filtering Algorithm<sup>*</sup>

Ken Goldberg and Theresa Roeder and Dhruv Gupta and Chris Perkins  
IEOR and EECS Departments  
University of California, Berkeley  
August 2000

## Abstract

Eigentaste is a collaborative filtering algorithm that uses *universal queries* to elicit real-valued user ratings on a common set of items and applies principal component analysis (PCA) to the resulting dense subset of the ratings matrix. PCA facilitates dimensionality reduction for offline clustering of users and rapid computation of recommendations. For a database of $n$ users, standard nearest-neighbor techniques require $O(n)$ processing time to compute recommendations, whereas Eigentaste requires $O(1)$ (constant) time. We compare Eigentaste to alternative algorithms using data from *Jester*, an online joke recommending system.

Jester has collected approximately 2,500,000 ratings from 57,000 users. We use the Normalized Mean Absolute Error (NMAE) measure to compare performance of different algorithms. In the Appendix we use Uniform and Normal distribution models to derive analytic estimates of NMAE when predictions are random. On the Jester dataset, Eigentaste computes recommendations two orders of magnitude faster with no loss of accuracy. Jester is online at:  
http://eigentaste.berkeley.edu

## 1 Introduction

The networked world contains a vast amount of data. Visitors face the arduous task of retrieving information that matches their preferences. The term “Collaborative Filtering” (CF) describes techniques that use the known preferences of a group of users to predict the unknown preferences of a new user; recommendations for the new user are based on these predictions [26]. Other terms that have been proposed are “social information filtering” [30], and “recommender system” [28]. In each case, users *collaborate* in the sense that each rating improves the performance of the overall system. The fundamental assumption is that if users A and B rate $k$ items similarly, they share similar tastes, and hence will rate other items similarly. Approaches differ in how they define a “rating,” how they define $k$, and how they define “similarly.”

A CF algorithm should be both *accurate* (the recommended objects should subsequently receive high ratings), and *efficient* in terms of computational complexity. A CF database represents $n$ users and $m$ items available for rating and recommendation. In most existing CF algorithms, online computation scales linearly with $n$. In this paper we propose a new algorithm, Eigentaste, designed to provide accurate and efficient recommendations to users in constant online time.<sup>1</sup>

Most CF systems include only *user-selected queries*: the user chooses which items to rate, yielding a sparse ratings matrix with many null values. The Eigentaste algorithm profiles user taste with *universal queries*: each item is presented with a short unbiased description (eg, book summary or film synopsis) so that users can form an opinion and respond to any query. Using univeral queries, Eigentaste presents each user with the same *gauge set* of items to rate during its profiling phase. This has the advantage that the subset of the ratings matrix containing the gauge set items is dense. Universal ratings also permit the system to collect immediate feedback on all recommended items. It is often argued that users who have not seen a film are not able to rate it effectively. The opposite can be argued: the experience of viewing a film can corrupt taste ratings by extraneous factors (indigestion, a bad seat, ...). The user’s level of familiarity with each item should properly be treated as a confidence, a second-order measure notoriously difficult to collect. Consumers implicitly rate unknown items whenever they shop or make choices. Collecting ratings only of familiar items can yield a highly-biased and incomplete model of user taste. When properly designed, universal queries offer the advantage of rapid and consistent profiling of new users.

Eigentaste captures user ratings on a *continuous* rating scale. To rate items, users are asked to click their mouse on a horizontal “ratings bar” which returns scalar values. While technically not continuous (limited by the granularity of HTML image maps), we can distinguish approximately 200 levels of ratings in the scale. Continuous ratings avoid discretization effects in matrix computations and may offer

<sup>*</sup> UCB Electronics Research Laboratory Technical Report M00/41.  
Pdf format available from www.ieor.berkeley.edu/goldberg/pubs/.  
For inquiries, please contact goldberg@ieor.berkeley.edu.

<sup>1</sup> A very brief and preliminary report on this algorithm appeared in [11]. A patent application that includes some elements of this algorithm has been filed by the UC Regents.
