$k$ is small (in our case $k = 10$), so this phase is not too demanding. Using a similar implementation to the one used for the nearest neighbor algorithm above, it took 27.85 seconds to scan all 8853 training set users, 444 msec to generate the eigenvectors/eigenvalues, and 298 msec to generate the clusters and the predictions for each cluster. The total offline time needed for 8853 training set users was 29.59 seconds.

Online, however, recommendations can be made in constant time: $O(k)$. Thus, there is no increase in time required to find a recommendation as the number of users in the system increases. For Jester, the time to project the ratings from the gauge set and to look up the recommendations is 3.22 msec per user. The Eigentaste algorithm provides a significant decrease in online computation time.

## 7 Discussion

In this paper we describe Eigentaste, a new CF algorithm that applies PCA to a dense subset of the ratings matrix. Eigentaste uses universal queries to elicit real-valued user ratings on a common set of items. PCA facilitates dimensionality reduction for offline clustering of user and rapid online cluster assignment. Accuracy and efficiency results on the Jester dataset are summarized in the table below.

| Algorithm | Accuracy<br>(NMAE) | Offline | Online | Online<br>time<br>per user |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| **POP** | 0.203 | $O(nm)$ | $O(1)$ | |
| **1-NN** | 0.237 | - | $O(nk)$ | 350 msec |
| **80-NN** | 0.187 | - | $O(nk)$ | 350 msec |
| **Eigentaste** | 0.187 | $O(k^2 n)$ | $O(k)$ | 3.2 msec |

These Normalized Mean Absolute Error (NMAE) values indicate that predicted ratings values will be within roughly 20% of the true ratings values for each algorithm. So items with predicted ratings well above the mean for a new user will in many cases correspond to desireable items for that user.

It is interesting to note that these accuracies are comparable with those reported for a completely different data set (movies); the algorithms in Herlocker et al [12], when normalized to the 4 unit rating scale (1-5), yield NMAE from 0.192 to 0.207.

The POP (global mean) algorithm offers a useful baseline for accuracy (see Appendix on other baseline comparisons). In terms of NMAE the POP algorithm performs reasonably well, as other researchers have found [12]. It is computationally efficient but completely ignores differences between users.

Nearest-neighbor methods offer improved accuracy, unless not enough neighbors are considered (eg. 1-NN), which makes individual recommendations highly susceptible to noise. If the 80 nearest neighbors are considered (80-NN), noise is reduced and accuracy improves about 8% over POP, but at the cost of considerable online computation as the number of users grows. Of course it may be possible to preprocess the user group to select or create a small number of representative users (“mentors”) to keep $n$ small.

For this dataset and implementation, Eigentaste’s accuracy is as good as 80-NN but its online computation is faster by two orders of magnitude. These results suggest that speedup can be achieved without compromising prediction accuracy.

We are experimenting with a number of variations, such as offline k-means clustering with cosine distance measures, and hybrid approaches with adaptive online weighting to further improve accuracy without altering online computation time.

Eigentaste addresses the sparseness problem with *universal queries* instead of user-selected queries; each query contains a short unbiased description (eg, book summary or film synopsis) so that users can form an immediate opinion. Using universal queries, Eigentaste presents each user with the same *gauge set* of items to rate during its profiling phase. The resulting subset of the ratings matrix is dense. As discussed in Section 1, it can be argued that universal queries are less effective than user-selected queries. But universal queries are particularly appropriate for some domains, such as jokes, news articles, images, and music clips, where a brief sample is available to be evaluated by all users. Although we applied universal queries in the domain of jokes (where the query is simply the joke itself), we are in the process of testing Eigentaste in other domains including books. We plan to write another paper on the design of universal queries and the choice of which items to include in the gauge set. When properly designed, universal queries offer the advantage of rapid and consistent profiling and the ability to collect immediate feedback on all recommended items. The effectiveness of universal queries, confidence queries, and the potential for hybrid query models depends on the domain and is a subject for future study.

Eigentaste captures user ratings on a continuous rating scale using the HTML image map protocol. Continuous ratings have three advantages: 1) they avoid discretization effects in matrix computations 2) they capture taste with finer granularity [1], and 3) users report that they find the continuous rating bar easier to use. Users often report a desire to choose a value “between” two discrete options. The etymology of the word “taste” suggests the digestive system: a user’s rating is literally a “gut reaction”. If so, the continuous rating bar may offer a more visceral interface. Last, users may provide more data if the interface feels more like navigating a video game than answering a questionnaire. More research on this issue is needed.
