[6] S. Deerwester, S. Dumais, G. Furnas, T. Landauer, and R. Harshman. Indexing by latent semantic analysis. *Journal of the American Society for Information Science,* 41(6):391-407, 1990.

[7] Joaquin A. Delgado. *Agent-Based Information Filtering and Recommender Systems on the Internet.* PhD thesis, Nagoya Institute of Technology, February 2000.

[8] C.H.Q. Ding. A similarity-based probability model for latent semantic indexing. In *Proceedings of the SIGIR.* ACM, August 1999.

[9] Alexander Chislenko et al. Us patent 6092049: Method and apparatus for efficiently recommending items using automated collaborative filtering and feature-guided automated collaborative filtering. 18 July 2000.

[10] David Goldberg, David Nichols, Brian Oki, and Douglas Terry. Using collaborative filtering to weave an information tapestry. *Communications of the ACM,* 35(12):61-70, 1992.

[11] D. Gupta and K. Goldberg. Jester 2.0: A linear time collaborative filtering algorithm applied to jokes. In *Proceedings of the SIGIR.* ACM, August 1999.

[12] Jonathan Herlocker, Joseph Konstan, Al Borchers, and John Riedl. An algorithmic framework for performing collaborative filtering. In *Proceedings of the SIGIR.* ACM, August 1999.

[13] Jonathan Herlocker, Joseph Konstan, Al Borchers, and John Riedl. An algorithmic framework for performing collaborative filtering. In *Proceedings of the SIGIR.* ACM, August 1999.

[14] John Hey. Us patent 4870579: System and method of predicting subjective reactions. 26 September 1989.

[15] T. Hofmann. Probabilistic latent semantic indexing. In *Proceedings of the SIGIR.* ACM, August 1999.

[16] H. Hotelling. Analysis of a complex of statistical variables into principal components. *Journal of Educational Psychology,* 24:417-441, 1933.

[17] J.E. Jackson. *A User Guide to Principal Components: A Problem Solving Approach.* John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1991.

[18] J.A. Konstan and K. Bharat. Integrated personal and community recommendations in collaborative filtering. In *CSCW Workshop,* 1996.

[19] Joseph Konstan, Bradley Miller, David Maltz, Jonathan Herlocker, Lee Gordon, and John Riedl. Grouplens: Applying collaborative filtering to usenet news. *Communications of the ACM,* 40(3):77-87, March 1997.

[20] P.R. Krishnaiah and L.N. Kanal. Classification, pattern recognition and reduction in dimensionality. In *Handbook of Statistics 2.* North-Holland Publishing Company, Amsterdam New York Oxford, 1982.

[21] T. Landauer, M. Littman, and Bell Communications Research (Bellcore). Us patent 5301109: Computerized cross-language document retrieval using latent semantic indexing. 5 April 1994.

[22] D.A. Maltz and K. Ehrlich. Pointing the way: Active collaborative filtering. In *Chi’95 Proceedings Papers,* 1995.

[23] Don Nilsen, editor. *International Journal of Humor Research.* Walter de Gruyter Inc., New York.

[24] K. Pearson. On lines and planes of closest fit to systems of points in space. *Phil. Mag.,* 2:559–572, 1901.

[25] D.M. Pennock and E. Horvitz. Analysis of the axiomatic foundations of collaborative filtering. In *AAAI Workshop on Artificial Intelligence for Electronic Commerce,* Orlando, Florida, July 1999. National Conference on Artificial Intelligence.

[26] D.M. Pennock and E. Horvitz. Collaborative filtering by personality diagnosis: A hybrid memory- and model-based approach. In *IJCAI Workshop on Machine Learning for Information Filtering,* Stockholm, Sweden, August 1999. International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence.

[27] Michael Pryor. The effects of singular value decomposition on collaborative filtering. *Dartmouth College CS Technical Report,* PCS-TR98-338, 1998.

[28] P. Resnick, N. Iacovou, M. Suchak, P. Bergstrom, and J. Riedl. Grouplens: An open architecture for collaborative filtering of netnews. In *Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work,* 1994.

[29] Elaine Rich. User modeling via stereotypes. *Cognitive Science,* 3:335-366, 1979.

[30] U. Shardanand and P. Maes. Social information filtering: Algorithms for automating word of mouth. In *ACM Conference on Computer Human Interaction (CHI),* 1995.
