We normalize this subset of $R$ to produce $A$, the $n \times k$ submatrix of gauge set ratings.

Each rating is normalized by subtracting its mean rating over all users, and then dividing by its standard deviation. Since valid users have rated all items in the gauge set, there will be no null ratings. The mean rating of the $j^{th}$ item in the gauge set is

$$
\mu_j = \frac{1}{n} \sum_{i \in U_j} \tilde{r}_{ij}
$$

and the variance of the $j^{th}$ gauge set item is

$$
\sigma_j^2 = \frac{1}{n - 1} \sum_{i \in U_j} (\tilde{r}_{ij} - \mu_j)^2.
$$

In $A$, the normalized rating $r_{ij}$ is set to $\frac{\tilde{r}_{ij} - \mu_j}{\sigma_j}$.

### 3.3 Pearson’s Correlation Matrix

If we assume a continuous rating scale and a linear relationship between variables, we can define the global correlation matrix $C(= [c_{jk}])$ over all users.

$$
C = \frac{1}{n - 1} A^T A.
$$

$C$ is symmetric and positive definite.

### 3.4 Principal Component Analysis

Principal Component Analysis was first introduced in 1901 by Karl Pearson [24]. Hotelling generalized it to random variables in 1933 [16]. We apply eigen-analysis to solve for matrices $E$ and $\Lambda$ such that

$$
C = E^T \Lambda E,
$$

and

$$
ECE^T = \Lambda.
$$

Let $B = AE^T$ be a linear transform of $A$ such that the transformed points are uncorrelated (its correlation matrix is diagonal):

$$
C_B = \frac{1}{n - 1} B^T B = ECE^T = \Lambda.
$$

Each column $j$ of $B$ has variance $\lambda_j$. After sorting by eigenvalue, Figure 1 shows the variance in $B$ left unaccounted for by each successive column of $E$ in a typical dataset.

[Figure: Line chart with x-axis labeled “eigenvector” from 1 to 10 and y-axis labeled “total %age of variance” from 0 to 1; curve decreases from about 0.7 at eigenvector 1 to near 0 at eigenvector 10.]

Figure 1: *Scree curve of variances explained by consecutive eigenvectors. The largest amount of variance is explained by the first eigenvector. The first two eigenvectors together account for for almost 50% of the total variance.*

The idea is to keep only the “principal” eigenvectors. The number of eigenvectors to retain depends on the variances (eigenvalues) but is typically small. If $v$ eigenvectors are retained, data is projected along the first $v$ principal eigenvectors:

$$
\mathbf{x} = RE_v^T
$$

One popular choice is to set $v = 2$, so that data are projected onto the “eigen-plane” for human visualization. PCA and the Eigentaste algorithm generalize easily to higher dimensions.

### 3.5 Recursive Rectangular Clustering

There are many ways to cluster the projected data. For the data in Section 4, after plotting in two dimensions we discovered a high concentration around the origin. We implemented a recursive rectangular clustering where cell size decreases near the origin. This can be generalized to higher dimensions and a variety of alternate clustering methods can be used with Eigentaste.

*Clustering*

1. Start with the minimal rectangular cell that encloses all the points (user projections) in the eigenplane. This forms the outermost rectangular subdivision.

2. Bisect this cell along the x and y axes to yield 4 rectangular sub-cells.

3. For each new sub-cell that has the origin as one of its vertices, perform the operation in step 2 to generate sub-cells at the next hierarchical level.

4. Repeat Step 3 for each level until a desired depth is reached.

Figure 2 is an illustration of recursive rectangular clustering in 2 dimensions after 4 levels of recursion

We treat each cell as a cluster of neighbors in the eigen plane. For each cluster, we compute the mean for each non-gauge item, based on the number of users who have rated
