In the Appendix, we consider the accuracy metric from a theoretical perspective. We have reported Normalized Mean Absolute Error values for our experiments and noted that these values compare surprisingly well to values reported in other domains and experiments. How significant is a NMAE of 20%? To compare the CF performance to random guessing, we use Uniform and Normal noise distribution models to derive analytic estimates of NMAE. We find that if user ratings are uniformly distributed, random predictions yield NMAE = 33%. This suggests that there is room for improved accuracy for all current CF algorithms.

## A Appendix: NMAE for Random Predictions

To compare the CF performance to random guessing, we use Uniform and Normal distribution models to estimate Normalized Mean Absolute Error (NMAE) analytically. Let $X$ be the user’s rating and $Y$ be the predicted rating. Let $X$ and $Y$ be independent random variables.

### Uniform Distribution

Let $X$ and $Y$ be *uniform* random variables on the interval $[-10, 10]$. The probability distribution of the error, $X - Y$, is a triangular function over the range $(-20, 20)$. Taking the absolute value folds this function onto the positive axis. Normalizing to integrate to 1, the MAE density function, $|X - Y|$, is $f(x) = 0.1 - 0.005x, 0 \leq x \leq 20$. The expected value for the $MAE_{|X-Y|}$ is

$$
E[MAE] = \int_0^{20} (0.1 - 0.005x)xdx = 6.667
$$

Normalizing over the range of values, NMAE = 0.333. That is, if actual and predicted values are uniformly distributed, we’d expect the random predictions, on average, to be off by a third of full scale.

To confirm, we performed a Monte Carlo experiment where the actual and predicted ratings are random numbers uniformly distributed between -10 to +10. The NMAE we found was 0.320, very close to the analytic prediction.

### Normal Distribution

Assume now that both the measured and predicted ratings are Normally distributed random variables with the same mean, $\mu$, and variances $\sigma_1^2$ and $\sigma_2^2$, respectively, $X$ and $Y$ are, again, independent. From the moment-generating function of random variables,

$$
M_{X-Y}(t) = M_X(t)M_{-Y}(t) = e^{\frac{1}{2}\sigma_1^2t^2+\mu t}e^{\frac{1}{2}\sigma_2^2t^2-\mu t} =
$$

$$
= e^{(\sigma_1^2+\sigma_2^2)t^2/2+(\mu-\mu)t}.
$$

Therefore, $X - Y$ is also Normally distributed, with mean 0 and variance $(\sigma_1^2 + \sigma_2^2)$.

For the Jester dataset, the average standard deviation is $\sigma \approx 5$. Assume both the actual and predicted ratings have $\sigma = 5$, the density function for $|X - Y|$ is

$$
f(x) = \frac{2}{\sqrt{2\pi}\sigma}e^{-x^2/100}.
$$

The expected MAE, then, is:

$$
E[MAE] = \int_0^\infty \frac{1}{5\sqrt{\pi}}e^{-x^2/100}xdx = 5.642.
$$

The expected NMAE is 0.282. That is, if actual and predicted values are normally distributed, we’d expect the predictions, on average, to be off by 28%.

## B Acknowledgments

This work was supported in part by NSF Award IRI-9553197. We thank Mark Digiovanni and Hiro Narita for their help in developing the initial version of Jester 1.0, and Matthias Runte for early comparisons with nearest-neighbor methods. We are grateful for the insightful input we received from from Hal Varian, Gordon Rios, Ming Zhang, Adam Jacobs, John Canny, Mike Jordan, Richard Wallace, Alper Atamturk, Marti Hearst, Bob Farzin, Rashmi Sinha, Steve Bui, and Ilan Adler as we developed the algorithm. Thanks to David Pescovitz and Malcolm Gladwell for covering this work in the press. We were fortunate to have received a server from Vivek Sanghi of Intel and excellent real world advice from Leonard Shlain, Reed Gaither, Alan Eyzaguirre, Bob Stein, Pam Aranow, and Jordan Shlain.

## References

[1] G. Albaum, R. Best, and D. Hawkins. Continuous vs discrete semantic differential ratings scales. *Psychological Reports*, 49:90–97, 1981.

[2] K.J. Arrow. *Social Choice and Individual Values*. Yale University Press, 2 edition, 1963.

[3] Daniel Billsus and Michael Pazzani. Learning collaborative information filters. In *AAAI Workshop on Recommender Systems*, August 1998.

[4] Breese, Heckerman, and Kadie. Empirical analysis of predictive algorithms for collaborative filtering. *Microsoft Research Technical Report*, (MSR-TR-98-12), October 1998.

[5] B.V. Dasarathy. *NN Pattern Classification Techniques*. IEEE Computer Society Press, CA, 1991.
