## 2.2 LLM’s in Humor Detection

In computational humor, there is a growing interest in evaluating the humor detection capabilities of LLMs. Research in this area has explored the ability of a model to assess the funniness of jokes, with findings indicating that ChatGPT can recognize humor when prompted, though its evaluation was limited to a set of top jokes (Jentzsch and Kersting, 2023). Subsequent tests with a larger set of comedic content showed that zero-shot prompting resulted in ChatGPT’s humor ratings closely aligning with those of human evaluators (Góes et al., 2023). Baranov et al. (2023) examined humor detection across various comedic datasets using both fine-tuned models and two LLMs, ChatGPT and Flan-UL2, as zero-shot classifiers. While these models achieved high results, they did not outperform fine-tuned models. Crowd Score was introduced to classify jokes using LLMs as AI judges, by providing a personality profile with zero-shot prompting (Goes et al., 2022). To the best of our knowledge, there has been no research focusing on statistical metrics for evaluating the accuracy of zero-shot settings in LLMs for detecting humor.

## 2.3 Subspaces in NLP

Using word subspaces for text representation and the mutual subspace method framework for text classification extends on using word embeddings like word2vec (Shimomoto et al., 2018). While embeddings represent word semantics as vectors, word subspaces capture the intrinsic variability of features in a set of word vectors in order to preserve semantic relationships. Subspace representations leverage the geometric structure of embeddings to address the challenge of effective text classification with limited training data (Shimomoto et al., 2024).

# 3 Methodology

In this section, we will explain our proposed metric and its mathematical details. It is crucial to consider a metric that can evaluate the model’s understanding of what makes a text humorous, despite the broad and subjective nature of humor.

## 3.1 Humor Detection Metric

Our metric utilizes three alternative approaches for scoring that capture the similarity of the model’s answers to the ground truth. As shown in Figure 2, the model’s score is computed in the following:

1. The model is prompted to extract humorous quotes from a stand-up comedian’s transcript. These quotes are stored as a list of strings, with $M=\{m_1,\ldots,m_n\}$ being the set of quotes predicted to be funny by the model for a specific transcript.

2. The ground truth is determined from the transcript using a laughter detection model (Gillick, 2017) that extracts laughter time stamps from the accompanying audio recording (Mittal et al., 2021). Forced alignment allows for a mapping between sentences in the transcript and laughter time frames. Thus, let $G=\{g_1,\ldots,g_k\}$ be the set of ground truths for the same transcript.

3. We calculate how close $M$ is to $G$ by offering a scoring module that allows for the use of either fuzzy string matching, sentence embeddings, or subspace similarity.

The following contain explanations of each scoring module.

## 3.2 Fuzzy String Matching Module

Fuzzy string matching provides a straightforward approach for comparing text using Levenshtein distance (Levenshtein, 1966). For a given transcript, a similarity score, $s^{fuzzy}$, between every model output and ground truth is stored in a similarity matrix $S^{fuzzy}\in[0,1]^{n\times k}$:

$$
S_{ij}^{fuzzy}=s^{fuzzy}(m_i,g_j).
\tag{1}
$$

Ideally, it is clear that the perfect score resembles an identity matrix, but in practice a ground truth can be matched with more than one prediction or to none. Therefore, the highest similarity score is selected for each ground truth to form a matrix that holds the best matches. In order to find the closest match, the maximum value is taken:

$$
t_j=\max_{m_i\in M} S_{ij}^{fuzzy}.
\tag{2}
$$

Notice that if a ground truth was not matched to any model output, $t_j$ is automatically assigned a score of 0. In the case of overgenerating quotes, which can be used as a tactic to exploit the metric, a penalty $p$ is applied if the number of predictions $n$ exceeds the number of ground truths $k$:

$$
p=\max(n-k,0).
\tag{3}
$$
