**Race**

| None | White | Black | Hispanic | Asian |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 35.2% | 31.1% | 28.7% | 30% | 26.9% |

**Age**

| None | Teen | YA | Adult | Elderly |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 35.2% | 32.8% | 34.2% | 31.7% | 28.7% |

**Gender**

| None | Woman | Man |
|---|---|---|
| 35.2% | 31.9% | 33.3% |

Table 5: Average scores found using fuzzy string module for audience demographic prompt for Gemma 2b-instruct.

| Model | % |
|---|---:|
| Gemma 2b-instruct | 68.8 |
| Gemma 2 9b-instruct | 68.8 |
| Llama 3 8b-instruct | 61.1 |
| Phi3-Mini 3.8b-instruct | 66.9 |
| ChatGPT-4o | 28.7 |
| Claude 3.5 Sonnet | 65.0 |
| DeepSeek-V3 | 58.9 |
| **Average** | 59.9 |

Table 6: Agreement scores between human evaluators and LLMs.

influenced by similar age ranges, leading to shared cultural references and senses of humor, potentially narrowing the diversity of interpretations.

We use the fuzzy string matching module to evaluate human answers against the ground truth. This revealed that humans receive a score of 40.7%. Interestingly, leading models ChatGPT, Claude, and DeepSeek, when measured with the same module, outperform humans. This disparity may arise because LLMs are inherently optimized for text-based tasks, focusing on linguistic and semantic cues without needing situational context. Mohamed and Bnini (2020) argues that humor in stand-up comedy often stems from incongruity, relying less on a performer’s stage persona and more on linguistic mechanisms. In the absence of theatrical embellishments, models excel at language-centric tasks and are particularly adept at identifying puns and wordplay. In contrast, humans often rely on elements such as delivery, tone, and audience reactions, which are absent in written transcripts, potentially limiting their ability on the task. We hypothesize that the scores for humans may differ if the evaluators were tasked with focusing on textual properties rather than general context.

| Transcript | % |
|---|---:|
| Ali Wong | 83.7 |
| Anthony Jeselnik | 90.1 |
| Hasan Minhaj | 85.4 |
| Jimmy Yang | 87.0 |
| Joe List | 88.5 |
| John Mulaney | 85.7 |
| **Average** | 86.7 |

Table 7: Agreement scores between the human evaluators on a specific comedian’s transcript.

The human-machine agreement rate between each model and humans was found with PA. For humans, a quote was funny if majority of raters voted on it. The scores can be found in Table 6.

Gemma 1 and 2 have the highest agreement rates, meaning that humans and these models agreed most on the funniness of a quote. The average agreement rate reaches 59.9%, suggesting that while there is a notable level of alignment in humor detection, pinpointing the same quotes proves to be difficult. It is interesting to note that Gemma 2 and humans received similar scores with the metric’s evaluation, suggesting a high level of similarity in how the model and humans assessed humor in a text-based format. Despite receiving a high score with the metric, ChatGPT has the lowest agreement rate, demonstrating that the agreement rate and metric scores do not have to match. ChatGPT’s ability surpassing humans on the task is unrelated to the agreement rate.

## 5 Conclusion

In this work, we introduce a novel humor detection metric designed to score a model’s output in relation to the ground truth of a text. The metric uses a scoring module in which the model can be evaluated using fuzzy string matching, sentence embeddings, or subspace similarity. We use a stand-up comedy dataset that offers unique narratives crafted with punchlines to maximize audience laughter. The ground truth is derived from laughter during the performance in which the entire atmosphere is conducive to comedy, emphasizing the limitations of text-based analysis. The task of identifying humor in a transcript appears to be a challenge, with even leading models, such as ChatGPT, Claude, and DeepSeek, barely receiving scores over 50%.
