a shift towards using datasets that capture humor within a narrative structure, specifically focusing on stand-up comedy transcripts for humor detection (Mittal et al., 2021; Turano and Strapparava, 2022). Stand-up comedy is a performance where comedians deliver jokes and funny monologues directly to a live audience. Regardless of the diversity in comedic styles, the overarching goal of any comedian remains consistent – to maximize audience laughter – creating a valuable resource for the perception of everyday humor (Daboin, 2022). In essence, stand-up comedy serves as both a data source and a pedagogical example for teaching AI the mechanics of humor, especially when the goal is to improve a model’s ability to communicate in a way that feels intuitive and relatable to humans.

LLMs demonstrate notable proficiency across a broad spectrum of tasks, but their performance can fluctuate based on the task’s nature. By developing a task-specific metric that focuses on humor detection, we offer a means of evaluation for a nuanced domain like comedy. The simplest method for measuring the capability of a model would be by counting the number of perfect matches. Taking subjectivity into consideration, it is unreasonable to expect perfection, even for humans. Thus, we offer a metric that provides a fair quantitative assessment that encompasses the subjectivity of humor with the probabilistic nature of LLMs.

Following Figure 1, our metric assesses a model’s performance in humor detection in zero-shot prompting scenarios by comparing the similarity of predicted humorous quotes against the ground truth – the punchlines that elicited laughter from the audience. The model operates in a zero-shot setting, meaning it is not provided with examples or prior instructions before prompting. The metric offers a modularized approach with three different ways to output a score.

First, the most straightforward approach uses fuzzy string matching to compare the similarity of two lists of strings (Snasel et al., 2009), where each list consists of humorous quotes from a stand-up comedian’s transcript. However, this quick, efficient method does not account for semantics and context, making it too punitive if a model makes a slight mistake when providing the quote.

Second, the vector embedding module captures semantic similarity between the vector representations of sentences, facilitating a more flexible assessment that emphasizes the underlying meanings of quotes rather than a strict word-for-word correspondence. (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019).

Third, while fuzzy string matching and vector similarities offer focused insights on a task, the last module provides a score that reflects the overall capability of a model in humor detection tasks using subspace representations. A subspace is generated for the model after it is prompted with several variations of an instruction and another subspace is generated for the ground truth. The alignment between these two subspaces reflects the structural similarity between the model’s outputs and the ground truth for the transcript in a more general way.

By proposing three distinct scoring modules for assessment, our metric acknowledges the subjectivity of the task, granting the evaluator the flexibility to decide how punitive they want to be towards a model’s responses. Fuzzy string matching offers a direct evaluation focusing on precision. Whereas, sentence embeddings are particularly useful when the model generates both a quote and accompanying explanation, allowing for an evaluation of contextual understanding and semantics. Subspaces introduce a novel approach that captures a model’s overall ability, considering multiple possible responses for the task in a single score. Balancing these methods gives a well-rounded view of performance, ensuring that both accuracy and deeper semantic understanding are taken into account.

We employ this metric to evaluate the efficacy of several different prompts and various language models. Additionally, we conduct a human evaluation on the same dataset to provide a reliable comparison for model performance. The human-based assessment accounts for the inherent subjectivity of humor, offering a reliable context to gauge the relative performance of the problem at hand.

The main contributions of this paper are:

1. Introduce a flexible metric that is designed to consider the subjectivity of humor detection tasks, providing a fair measure for the performance of LLMs;
2. Assess the metric across various models and multiple prompt variations, applied to stand-up comedy transcripts;
3. Provide a quantitative assessment of human performance on the same humor detection task, alongside a calculation of agreement ratios between human and LLM-based humor detection, offering a basis for comparison.
