# From Punchlines to Predictions: A Metric to Assess LLM Performance in Identifying Humor in Stand-Up Comedy

| Adrianna Romanowski | Pedro H. V. Valois | Kazuhiro Fukui |
|---|---|---|
| International Christian University | University of Tsukuba | University of Tsukuba |
| adaromanowski@gmail.com | pedro@cvlab.cs.tsukuba.ac.jp | kfukui@cs.tsukuba.ac.jp |

## Abstract

Comedy serves as a profound reflection of the times we live in and is a staple element of human interactions. In light of the widespread adoption of Large Language Models (LLMs), the intersection of humor and AI has become no laughing matter. Advancements in the naturalness of human-computer interaction correlates with improvements in AI systems’ abilities to understand humor. In this study, we assess the ability of models in accurately identifying humorous quotes from a stand-up comedy transcript. Stand-up comedy’s unique comedic narratives make it an ideal dataset to improve the overall naturalness of comedic understanding. We propose a novel humor detection metric designed to evaluate LLMs amongst various prompts on their capability to extract humorous punchlines. The metric has a modular structure that offers three different scoring methods – fuzzy string matching, sentence embedding, and subspace similarity – to provide an overarching assessment of a model’s performance. The model’s results are compared against those of human evaluators on the same task. Our metric reveals that regardless of prompt engineering, leading models, ChatGPT, Claude, and DeepSeek, achieve scores of at most 51% in humor detection. Notably, this performance surpasses that of humans who achieve a score of 41%. The analysis of human evaluators and LLMs reveals variability in agreement, highlighting the subjectivity inherent in humor and the complexities involved in extracting humorous quotes from live performance transcripts. Code available at https://github.com/swaggir19000/humor.

[Figure: Flowchart showing “Transcript” feeding into “LLM”, then “Predicted Quotes” into “Scoring”; “Ground Truths” and “Audio + Transcript” feed into scoring. Under scoring are modules: “Fuzzy String Matching”, “Vector Embedding”, and “Subspace Similarity”.]

Figure 1: We propose a humor detection metric with three alternative scoring modules – fuzzy string matching, vector embedding, subspace similarity – and integrate them to assess a model’s predictions with the ground truth, the stand-up comedy quotes that made the audience laugh.

# 1 Introduction

Humor plays a significant role in our daily lives and is a fundamental part of human interaction. Despite the rapid advancements in artificial intelligence and human-computer interactions, the field of computational humor lags behind. Improvement in the ability of machines to understand and generate humor has the potential to enhance the naturalness of exchanges with Large Language Models (LLMs). Prior research has demonstrated that humans interact with the personalities of computers similarly to the ways they respond to other humans. As AI systems continue to integrate into e-commerce, virtual reality, and take on personal assistant roles, the necessity for these systems to exhibit a certain level of social intelligence, which goes hand-in-hand with humor, becomes essential (Binsted et al., 2006).

The tasks of humor detection, evaluation, and generation are consistently a challenge for AI due to humor’s reliance on irony, sarcasm, and cultural nuances. Research shows that models trained on diverse datasets, ranging from humorous tweets to funny news headlines to puns, can achieve strong performance on tasks. However, they often struggle with out-of-domain scenarios (Baranov et al., 2023) and tend to over rely on stylistic features such as punctuation and question words, rather than a deep semantic understanding (Lima Inácio et al., 2023).

Traditionally, research on humor detection was approached through binary classification tasks, using standalone jokes (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005) or occasional jokes within longer presentations (Hasan et al., 2019). In this paper, we propose
