The final score is adjusted with the penalty and a scaling factor, $\alpha = 0.1$, and the average score is computed for the transcript:

$$
score^{fuzzy} = \max \left( \frac{1}{k} \sum_{j=1}^{k} t_j - \alpha p, 0 \right).
\tag{4}
$$

### 3.3 Vector Embedding Module

In the second module, we switch to using sentence embeddings that better reflect context and meaning. In some cases, LLMs may generate non-compliant responses in which the output would be an explanation of the humor rather than a direct quote. Since fuzzy string matching purely focuses on character-level changes, like insertions or deletions, it fails to capture the semantic nuances, and therefore would heavily penalize the model’s predictions. Yuan et al. (2021) introduced BARTSCORE, a metric to evaluate the accuracy and effectiveness of generated text using BART, an encoder-decoder based model. We take a similar approach by using an embedding model from Sentence Transformers (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019), to apply a more flexible measure of similarity emphasizing the essence of a text.

The similarity score, $s^{embed}$, is now calculated using vectors of the quotes from $M$ and $G$:

$$
S_{ij}^{embed} = s^{embed}(\mathbf{m}_i, \mathbf{g}_j),
\tag{5}
$$

where $\mathbf{m}_i$ and $\mathbf{g}_j$ are the vector representations of the model’s predicted quote and ground truth quote that are currently being evaluated. The penalty and average are handled the same way as in the fuzzy string matching module to produce $score^{embed}$.

### 3.4 Subspace Similarity Module

Fuzzy string matching and sentence embeddings allow us to evaluate each LLM from its output strings, but we can also conduct a deeper analysis by evaluating the LLMs feature vector space directly. With that in mind, we leverage the structural similarity between two subspaces (Fukui and Maki, 2015) that can take into account the structure of the LLM feature vectors using multiple variations of instructions as input and the accompanying output for a transcript. Let $\mathbf{M} = [\mathbf{m}_1 \ \mathbf{m}_2 \ \ldots \ \mathbf{m}_n]$ represent the collection of model outputs and $\mathbf{G} = [\mathbf{g}_1 \ \mathbf{g}_2 \ \ldots \ \mathbf{g}_k]$ represent the ground truths for each variation of instruction for a transcript. By applying PCA to the set of vectors, $\mathbf{M}$ and $\mathbf{G}$, respectively, we obtain the bases, $\mathbf{S}_M$ and $\mathbf{S}_G \in \mathbb{R}^{d \times q}$ of subspaces, $\mathcal{S}_M$ and $\mathcal{S}_G$, where $d$ is the dimension of the feature vectors and $q$ is the dimension of the subspaces. We calculate the SVD, $\mathbf{S}_M^\top \mathbf{S}_G = \mathbf{U}\mathbf{\Sigma}\mathbf{V}^\top$, where $diag(\mathbf{\Sigma}) = (\kappa_1, \ldots, \kappa_q)$, $\kappa_1 \geq \ldots \geq \kappa_q$, represents the set of singular values, which are the cosines of the canonical angles $\theta_i$. The similarity can then be defined

$$
score^{subspace} = \frac{1}{r} \sum_{i=1}^{r} \kappa_i^2,
\tag{6}
$$

where $r$ is the number of canonical angles used for score calculation.

By using subspaces, our metric allows us to simulate variations of the prompt while reducing penalization for minor variations, offering a comprehensive reflection of the model’s performance.

## 4 Experiments

In this section, we evaluate several LLMs using the proposed metric, apply prompt engineering techniques to optimize model performance, and conduct a human-machine agreement task.

### 4.1 Experimental Settings

We use the Open Mic dataset (Mittal et al., 2021), which provides both audio and transcripts for several stand-up performances. To create a fair comparison, we randomly selected 51 transcripts with an average word length of 270 words and length of 106 seconds. We prompt each model with a transcript and the following instruction:

**Prompt 1 (Standard Humor Detection Prompt)**  
*Extract the key humorous lines and punchlines for this stand-up comedy transcript. Focus on the quotes highlighting the main comedic moments. List of quotes:*

The model outputs a list of quotes that it found humorous. All experiments ran in less than a day.

### 4.2 Model Comparison

We evaluate various models using Prompt 1 to gain deeper insight into our metric’s assessments and explore the ability of LLMs in detecting humor. We use the instruct versions of Google’s Gemma with 2-billion parameters, Google’s Gemma 2 with 9-billion parameters, Meta’s Llama 3.1 with 8-billion parameters, and Microsoft’s Phi 3-Mini with 3.8-billion parameters. We continue experimentation with OpenAI’s ChatGPT-4o, Anthropic’s Claude
