However, this difficulty is also evident among humans, who only received a score of 40.7% when assessed with the metric, revealing that leading models can outperform humans on the task.

In the future, we aim to apply the metric to evaluate a model’s predicted quotes in a format distinct from text. Stand-up comedy is heavily influenced by elements not captured in written transcripts. We hypothesize that if a model were to extract quotes from a performance with muted laughter, the nature of the output would differ substantially. Moreover, this approach raises questions about the perception of humor among humans when they view stand-up without background laughter. By exploring live comedy performances, we hope to deploy our metric for humor detection on stand-up comedy videos.

## 6 Limitations

This study presents some limitations regarding the calculation of ground truth and the nature of humor analysis. First, the ground truth is derived from audio recordings where laughter is marked using timestamps. Since we assume that the sentence preceding the laughter is the humorous one, there is a possibility that the most humorous part of the joke was not accurately captured. Although we accounted for potential delays in laughter, some reactions may have been misattributed. Second, the ground truth does not differentiate between varying magnitudes of laughter. We used a laughter detection model with a minimum laughter length of 0.2 seconds and a minimum probability threshold of 0.5 (default values) (Gillick, 2017), which may have resulted in some laughter being missed. Thus, jokes that elicited subtler audience reactions might not have been accounted for. Lastly, our study relies on a text-based analysis of humor, which is a clear limitation when evaluating performances originally designed for live delivery. Future research could explore how incorporating non-textual elements—such as tone, timing, and body language—affects humor perception for both human evaluators and language models.

## 7 Ethical Statement

In this work, we use stand-up comedy audio recordings and transcripts, which may contain humor that some may find offensive or politically incorrect. The content was analyzed solely for research purposes, without endorsement of any particular viewpoint.

## Acknowledgement

This work was supported by JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number JP23K28117.

## References

Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. 2020. A survey on approaches to computational humor generation. In *Proceedings of the 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, pages 29–41, Online. International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Alexander Baranov, Vladimir Kniazhevsky, and Pavel Braslavski. 2023. You told me that joke twice: A systematic investigation of transferability and robustness of humor detection models. In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 13701–13715, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Dario Bertero and Pascale Fung. 2016. Deep learning of audio and language features for humor prediction. In *Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’16)*, pages 496–501, Portorož, Slovenia. European Language Resources Association (ELRA).

K. Binsted, A. Nijholt, O. Stock, C. Strapparava, G. Ritchie, R. Manurung, H. Pain, A. Waller, and D. O’Mara. 2006. Computational humor. *IEEE Intelligent Systems*, 21(2):59–69.

Lihu Chen and Gaël Varoquaux. 2024. What is the role of small models in the llm era: A survey. *Preprint*, arXiv:2409.06857.

Yoonseo Choi, Eun Jeong Kang, Seulgi Choi, Min Kyung Lee, and Juho Kim. 2024. Proxona: Leveraging llm-driven personas to enhance creators’ understanding of their audience. *Preprint*, arXiv:2408.10937.

Alan Daboin. 2022. What’s the deal with standup comedy? In *Aesthetic Literacy vol I: a book for everyone.*, pages 128–140. Mont Publishing House.

DeepSeek-AI, Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, Damai Dai, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Deli Chen, Dongjie Ji, Erhang Li, Fangyun Lin, Fucong Dai, Fuli Luo, Guangbo Hao, Guanting Chen, Guowei Li, H. Zhang, Han Bao, Hanwei Xu, Haocheng Wang, Haowei Zhang, Honghui Ding, Huajian Xin, Huazuo Gao, Hui Li, Hui Qu, J. L. Cai, Jian Liang, Jianzhong Guo, Jiaqi Ni, Jiashi Li, Jiawei Wang, Jin Chen, Jingchang Chen, Jingyang Yuan, Junjie Qiu, Junlong Li, Junxiao Song, Kai Dong, Kai Hu, Kaige Gao, Kang Guan, Kexin Huang, Kuai Yu, Lean Wang, Lecong Zhang, Lei Xu, Leyi Xia, Liang Zhao, Litong Wang, Liyue Zhang, Meng Li, Miaojun Wang, Mingchuan Zhang, Minghua Zhang, Minghui Tang, Mingming Li, Ning Tian, Panpan Huang, Peiyi Wang, Peng Zhang, Qiancheng Wang, Qihao Zhu, Qinyu Chen, Qiushi Du, R. J. Chen, R. L. Jin, Ruiqi Ge, Ruisong Zhang, Ruizhe Pan, Runji Wang, Runxin Xu, Ruoyu Zhang, Ruyi Chen, S. S. Li, Shanghao Lu, Shangyan Zhou, Shanhuang Chen, Shaoqing Wu, Shengfeng Ye, Shengfeng Ye, Shirong Ma, Shiyu Wang, Shuang Zhou, Shuiping Yu, Shunfeng Zhou, Shuting Pan, T. Wang, Tao Yun, Tian Pei, Tianyu Sun, W. L. Xiao, Wangding Zeng,
