of $(\mathcal{H}(j), \mathcal{S}(j), \mathcal{T}(j))$ for $j \sim \mathcal{J}$, specifically measuring how stereotypicality and toxicity relate to the perceived humor in LLM-generated jokes.

### 2.1.2 How roles and personas affect safety?

Besides understanding the joint behaviour and interactions between humor, stereotypes, and toxicity as is, monitoring their behaviour for the modern role-based applications also becomes a practical necessity, ensuring that LLMs respond appropriately in contexts like virtual assistants, conversational agents, or content creators, where tone, bias, and impact matter deeply. Hence, we evaluate the effects of assigned roles/personas $(\mathcal{P})$ (ref. section 2.2.3) on the safety metrics $\mathcal{M}_{\text{unsafe}}=\{\mathcal{S}(j), \mathcal{T}(j)\}$:

$$
\Delta \mathcal{M}_{\text{unsafe}} = \mathbb{E}_{j' \sim \mathcal{J}_{\text{persona}}}[\mathcal{M}_{\text{unsafe}}(j')]
- \mathbb{E}_{j \sim \mathcal{J}_{\text{base}}}[\mathcal{M}_{\text{unsafe}}(j)]. \tag{3}
$$

## 2.2 Generation Method

### 2.2.1 Prompt setups for humor generation

We use data from Weller and Seppi (2020) as our jokes database. This dataset contains over $\sim$ 540K jokes collected from Reddit[^0], each consisting of a *setup* and *punchline*, along with community upvote[^1] counts. Using stereotype classifiers (Section 3.2), we filter the dataset to extract stereotypical jokes. We remove the punchlines from these and then filter again to create non-stereotypical setups out of those, by removing any jokes where the *setup* contains stereotypical references. From this data, we sample 10, 000 setups to serve as prompt prefixes. We intentionally pick neutral setups (innocuous premises) so that any bias in the joke reflects the model’s invention through the punchline generation, not the prompt or prompted joke setup. However, they are drawn from stereotypical jokes, **to still give the model the opportunity to venture into risky territory** when generating punchlines.

Find more details on the dataset in Section B.

### 2.2.2 Complementing satire generation task

Additionally, we evaluate on the satire-generation subset from Horvitz et al. (2024), which pairs satirical headlines with LLM-generated satirical variants originating from ’unfun’ (serious) headlines and includes human funniness annotations for the satirical generations. We use their human funniness labels to partition LLM satirical generations into Funny vs. Not-Funny groups and assess stereotypicality and toxicity with the same detectors used in our main pipeline to enable cross-dataset comparability.

### 2.2.3 Generation pipelines

We use the bodies of these jokes as the setup for LLM continuations. Next, we design a base and a persona-conditioned prompt.

**Base prompt** In the base condition, the joke body is provided, and the model is asked to complete it. We use the template: *“I’m giving you the body of a joke and you have to complete it, making the whole thing funny. Output only the completion text of the joke, in less than 50 words. $\{x_{\text{setup}}\}$”*. The final joke is $x_{\text{setup}} + y$ (generated punchline).

**Personification** In the persona condition, we prepend an instruction indicating a famous comedian’s persona. Concretely, we draw on the Pantheon 2.0 dataset (Yu et al., 2016) of globally renowned biographies to identify the 50 most globally prominent figures classified as comedians. For each joke, we select one comedian at a time (e.g. “Robin Williams”, “Bob Hope”, etc.; find full list in section C.2). To assign a persona $(\mathcal{P})$ and encourage the model to imitate that comedian’s style when generating the punchline, we use its system role provision. We use the following parameter template: *“Speak exactly like $\mathcal{P}$. Your answer should copy the style of $\mathcal{P}$, both the writing style and words you use,”* following Deshpande et al. (2023a).

**Models and settings** Each prompt (neutral or persona-conditioned) is then completed by a suite of six state-of-the-art LLMs. Specifically, we use the open OLMo-2 family (OLMo et al., 2025) (with model sizes 7B, 13B, and 32B), Llama 3.1 (8B) model (Grattafiori et al., 2024), and two Mistral models (Ministral 8B and Mistral-Small 24B[^2]). All models generate continuations with a temperature of 0.6 and a maximum output length of 256 tokens (to keep the joke under BERT-based classifiers’ token length, ref. section 3.2). In total, each of the 10, 000 joke bodies yields 5 completions, for both neutral and persona prompts, across the six models. This pipeline produces a rich set of $\sim$ 15 Million generations for analysis.

[^0]: https://www.reddit.com/r/Jokes/

[^1]: https://support.reddithelp.com/hc/en-us/articles/7419626610708-What-are-upvotes-and-downvotes

[^2]: https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-Small-24B-Instruct-2501
