Ameet Deshpande, Tanmay Rajpurohit, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ashwin Kalyan. 2023b. Anthropomorphization of AI: Opportunities and risks. In *Proceedings of the Natural Legal Language Processing Workshop 2023*, pages 1–7, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina N. Toutanova. 2018. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding.

Atharvan Dogra, Krishna Pillutla, Ameet Deshpande, Ananya B. Sai, John J Nay, Tanmay Rajpurohit, Ashwin Kalyan, and Balaraman Ravindran. 2025. Language models can subtly deceive without lying: A case study on strategic phrasing in legislation. In *Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 33367–33390, Vienna, Austria. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tyna Eloundou, Alex Beutel, David G. Robinson, Keren Gu-Lemberg, Anna-Luisa Brakman, Pamela Mishkin, Meghan Shah, Johannes Heidecke, Lilian Weng, and Adam Tauman Kalai. 2025. First-person fairness in chatbots. *Preprint*, arXiv:2410.19803.

Isabel O. Gallegos, Ryan A. Rossi, Joe Barrow, Md Mehrab Tanjim, Sungchul Kim, Franck Dernoncourt, Tong Yu, Ruiyi Zhang, and Nesreen K. Ahmed. 2024. Bias and fairness in large language models: A survey. *Preprint*, arXiv:2309.00770.

Drew Gorenz and Norbert Schwarz. 2024. How funny is chatgpt? a comparison of human-and ai-produced jokes. *Plos one*, 19(7):e0305364.

Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Alex Vaughan, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, Anirudh Goyal, Anthony Hartshorn, Aobo Yang, Archi Mitra, Archie Sravankumar, Artem Korenev, Arthur Hinsvark, and 542 others. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models. *Preprint*, arXiv:2407.21783.

Thomas Hartvigsen, Saadia Gabriel, Hamid Palangi, Maarten Sap, Dipankar Ray, and Ece Kamar. 2022. Toxigen: A large-scale machine-generated dataset for implicit and adversarial hate speech detection. In *Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*.

Zachary Horvitz, Jingru Chen, Rahul Aditya, Harshvardhan Srivastava, Robert West, Zhou Yu, and Kathleen McKeown. 2024. Getting serious about humor: Crafting humor datasets with unfunny large language models. In *Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 855–869, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

F. Hutcheson. 1750. *Reflections Upon Laughter: And Remarks Upon the Fable of the Bees*. Garland Publishing.

Antonios Kalloniatis and Panagiotis Adamidis. 2024. Computational humor recognition: a systematic literature review. *Artificial Intelligence Review*, 58(2):43.

Sean Kim and Lydia B. Chilton. 2025. Ai humor generation: Cognitive, social and creative skills for effective humor. *Preprint*, arXiv:2502.07981.

Srijan Kumar, William L. Hamilton, Jure Leskovec, and Dan Jurafsky. 2018. Community interaction and conflict on the web. In *Proceedings of the 2018 World Wide Web Conference*, WWW ’18, page 933–943, Republic and Canton of Geneva, CHE. International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee.

Zhenzhong Lan, Mingda Chen, Sebastian Goodman, Kevin Gimpel, Piyush Sharma, and Radu Soricut. 2020. Albert: A lite bert for self-supervised learning of language representations. *Preprint*, arXiv:1909.11942.

Alyssa Lees, Vinh Q. Tran, Yi Tay, Jeffrey Sorensen, Jai Gupta, Donald Metzler, and Lucy Vasserman. 2022. A new generation of perspective api: Efficient multilingual character-level transformers. *Preprint*, arXiv:2202.11176.

Danrui Li, Samuel S. Sohn, Sen Zhang, Che-Jui Chang, and Mubbasir Kapadia. 2024. From words to worlds: Transforming one-line prompts into multi-modal digital stories with llm agents. In *Proceedings of the 17th ACM SIGGRAPH Conference on Motion, Interaction, and Games*, MIG ’24, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Shayne Longpre, Gregory Yauney, Emily Reif, Katherine Lee, Adam Roberts, Barret Zoph, Denny Zhou, Jason Wei, Kevin Robinson, David Mimno, and Daphne Ippolito. 2024. A pretrainer’s guide to training data: Measuring the effects of data age, domain coverage, quality, & toxicity. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 3245–3276, Mexico City, Mexico. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Rod A Martin and Thomas Ford. 2006. The psychology of humor. *Burlington, MA: Elsevier*, 2.

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. Making computers laugh: Investigations in automatic humor recognition. In *Proceedings of Human Language Technology Conference and Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 531–538, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Eric Nichols, Leo Gao, and Randy Gomez. 2020. Collaborative storytelling with large-scale neural language models. *Preprint*, arXiv:2011.10208.

Team OLMo, Pete Walsh, Luca Soldaini, Dirk Groeneveld, Kyle Lo, Shane Arora, Akshita Bhagia, Yuling Gu, Shengyi Huang, Matt Jordan, Nathan Lambert, Dustin Schwenk, Oyvind Tafjord, Taira Anderson,
