(Bai et al., 2024). Accordingly, recent work emphasizes measuring bias in LLM-generated text, both via prompt-based probes and fine-tuned classifiers (Gallegos et al., 2024; Wu et al., 2024c). Our work extends this line by focusing on the creative humor generation where biases may be subtly introduced.

**Humor in language modelling.** Computational humor has long been studied (Yang et al., 2015; Kalloniatis and Adamidis, 2024), and is now being seen from the perspective of LLMs (Wang et al., 2025a). The r/Jokes dataset is a key resource, containing over 550K Reddit jokes with user-provided humor ratings (Weller and Seppi, 2020). Early methods on humor recognition used hand-crafted features (e.g., alliteration, antonymy) (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005), while recent systems fine-tune neural models on humor corpora (Weller and Seppi, 2019). Studies show GPT-based models can produce plausible jokes: for instance, GPT-3.5 output was rated on par with human-written jokes in experiments by (Gorenz and Schwarz, 2024). Other works controlled humor generation, e.g. by prompting the model to reason step-by-step about jokes (Chen et al., 2023). Our paper builds on these by not only generating jokes, but also critically evaluating their contents in terms of stereotype and toxicity.

**Stereotype and toxicity detection.** Studying subtle threats in text is emerging as a key field (Dogra et al., 2025), with humor posing similar risks of surfacing subtle stereotypes. Wu et al. (2024c) introduced a benchmark for multiclass stereotype detection and found that popular LLMs “risk perpetuating and amplifying stereotypicality derived from their training data”. Similarly, Hartvigsen et al. (2022) generate adversarial hate speech data to improve hate detection, underscoring the challenge of dynamic bias in content. For toxicity, off-the-shelf tools like Google’s Perspective API (Lees et al., 2022) and transformer-based classifiers (e.g. Hate-BERT (Caselli et al., 2021)) are commonly used. Following this approach, we apply state-of-the-art toxicity detector and trained stereotype classifier to LLM-generated jokes to quantify bias.

**Humor theories and NLP.** Attempts at understanding humor is currently dated back to ancient Greece, since the times of Aristotle (Raskin, 1979; Martin and Ford, 2006; Attardo, 2009; Crisp, 2014). Recent development in computational linguistics and conversational AI has brought humor research to the forefront of AI research as well (Xie et al., 2021). With this, it also brought the need to ensure that modern conversational agents and AI assistant, while keeping the interactions engaging (for example, through humor), do not compromise safety or perpetuates harmful ideas. For this, we take a step towards grounding the safe humor research through humor theories of incongruity (Hutcheson, 1750).

## B Dataset

We begin with the Reddit r/Jokes[^3] corpus compiled by Weller and Seppi (2020), which contains over 550, 000 jokes annotated with user upvote[^4] counts (we describe upvotes’ use for regression-based humor scoring in section 3.2). Jokes on this forum include tags for body (setup) and punchlines, and we get separately structured joke setups and punchlines in this dataset.

First, we filter out the jokes with an overall token length greater than 512 and the joke body token length greater than 256 to keep them under the context length limit of the ALBERT model (Lan et al., 2020). Next, we pick stereotypical jokes from the remaining data. We use the finetuned ALBERT-v2 model from Wu et al. (2024b) (Section 3.2) trained to detect social stereotypes. To ensure content neutrality for the setups, we finally apply a separate filter for stereotypical content on the bodies: Each joke body is evaluated by the ALBERT-v2 model. Any joke body flagged as “stereotypical” is discarded. The remaining joke bodies – all free of strong stereotype cues – form the final neutral corpus of joke prompts. With this process, we build a corpus of neutral setups with the potential to generate punchlines leading to an overall stereotypical joke. From this final corpus, we sample 10, 000 joke bodies as our base dataset for our experiments.

### B.1 Data for satire generation task and human evaluations

We utilise the human-evaluated subset of the data from Horvitz et al. (2024) and their open-sourced human evaluation results.

[^3]: https://www.reddit.com/r/Jokes/  
[^4]: https://support.reddithelp.com/hc/en-us/articles/7419626610708-What-are-upvotes-and-downvotes
