| Metrics | 10vs1000 | 30vs300 |
|---|---:|---:|
| Average Accuracy | 78 | 61.6 |
| Highest Accuracy | 85.33 | 68 |
| Majority Accuracy | 84 | 66 |
| Fleis Kappa | 0.3641 | 0.2304 |
| Agreement Rate | 77.28 | 67.68 |

Table 5: Human expert performance. There are total of 5 human expert in this group.

For the highest accuracy metric, we independently identify the best-performing expert for each of our two ranking tasks (Rank 10 vs 1000 and Rank 30 vs 300 pairs). The majority vote accuracy reflects the performance of collective human judgment. For each test instance, we aggregate the five individual expert annotations through majority voting to determine the final prediction, then calculate the accuracy of these consensus-based decisions. To assess inter-annotator agreement, we employ two complementary metrics, Fleis Kappa and agreement rate. The Fleiss Kappa values indicate fair to moderate agreement, accounting for the chance agreement. The agreement rate measure if randomly selected two annotators’ judgments for a random caption pair, they would agree 77.28% of the time for the ranking tasks of Rank 10 vs 1000 and 67.68% of the time for the ranking tasks of Rank 30 vs 300.

## D Additional Paper Details

We used OpenAI, Anthropic and Google APIs for all experiments. Overall, our experiments cost around $4,000 USD. In addition, LLMs have been used to rephrase some parts of this paper.

This paper is for research purpose only, and complies with the CC-BY-4.0 license for the dataset from Hessel et al. (2023) and the CC-BY-NC-4.0 license from Zhang et al. (2024).
