| System Prompt | GPT-4o (%) | Claude (%) | Gemini (%) | o3-mini (%) |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Empty (Baseline) | 73.5 | 68 | 47 | 70 |
| Judge | 73 | 67.5 | 55 | 58 |
| Male Lawyer | 75 | 74 | 51 | 59 |
| Female Lawyer | **76.5** | 69 | 59 | 67 |
| CS Phd | 73.5 | 68 | 49 | 65 |
| Sociologist & Psychologist | 73.5 | 67 | 61 | 60 |
| Literature Student | 73.5 | 72 | 51 | 58 |
| Bob Mankoff | 73.5 | 66 | 50 | 62 |
| Larry Wood | 73 | 68 | 57 | 61 |
| Cartoon Author | 71.5 | 61 | 46 | 62 |

**Table 2:** Performance of using different persona-based system prompts on 10 vs 1000 pairwise caption ranking task across four language models: GPT-4o, Claude-3.5-Sonnet, Gemini-2.0-Thinking-Experiment, and o3-mini. Each number is measured on a size 200 subset of the test set. Each row represents a distinct persona-based prompt. See Appendix B for system prompts and Appendix A.4 for the task prompt.

| Methods | 10vs1000 | 30vs300 |
|---|---:|---:|
| Expert Majority Vote | $84_{\pm5.2}$ | $66_{\pm6.8}$ |
| Expert Average Accuracy | $78_{\pm2.6}$ | $61.6_{\pm3.0}$ |
| Best Expert Accuracy | $85.33_{\pm2.9}$ | $68_{\pm3.8}$ |
| Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking | $51.8_{\pm1.6}$ | $50.6_{\pm1.6}$ |
| o1 | $69_{\pm1.5}$ | $58_{\pm1.6}$ |
| o3-mini | $60.7_{\pm1.5}$ | $53.2_{\pm1.6}$ |
| Claude 3.5 Sonnet | $65.8_{\pm1.5}$ | $54_{\pm1.6}$ |
| GPT-4o Prompting | $67.3_{\pm1.5}$ | $53.9_{\pm1.6}$ |
| GPT-4o SFT w/o Expl. (Ours) | $79.4_{\pm1.3}$ | $59.7_{\pm1.6}$ |
| GPT-4o SFT w/ Expl. (Ours) | **$82.4_{\pm1.2}$** | **$63.2_{\pm1.5}$** |

**Table 3:** Accuracy(%) Comparison of Different Methods. All models (Gemini, o1, o3-mini, Claude and GPT-4o) use prompting techniques including best persona, 5-shot in-context learning, and o1-preview generated explanations. Our fine-tuned GPT-4o model with humor explanations even outperforms the best human expert.

any persona. These results indicate that persona-based alignment is not strong enough to capture the preferences of the New Yorker crowd. Instead, more powerful alignment strategies, such as supervised fine-tuning (SFT), are required. In the next section, we detail our application of SFT to better align the model with human preferences and bridge the performance gap.

### 4.3.2 GPT-4o Finetuning

Despite the limited accuracy gain by persona-based prompting, aligning to a specific group of audience should not be a hard task especially when the model is given access to the correct understanding and explanations of the captions. Indeed, once we finetune SOTA LLMs on a small set of human preferences, we recover a significantly higher ranking accuracy. This also reveals an interesting failure case where LLMs fail in understanding subgroup and individual human preferences for subjective tasks (more discussions in Section 5).

To construct the training set, for each of the 279 training cartoons, we randomly form 10 pairwise comparisons between captions ranked 1-10 and those ranked 1000-1009, and another ten pairs between 30-39 and 300-309. This in total results in 5580 pairs of captions. In our experiments, we performed a simple supervised finetuning of GPT-4o, for it to choose between the two candidate captions. The model is given the cartoon description, the two captions and their corresponding explanations generated by o1-preview.

Note that pairwise comparisons of captions ranked 30-39 versus those ranked 300-309 have a much narrower gap, and are thus much more challenging. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to evaluate performance on this task. Results on both the easier (1-10 vs 1000-1009) and the the more challenging (30-39 vs 300-309) sets of comparisons are reported. As shown in Table 3, fine-tuned GPT-4o models can significantly improve upon all prompting-based baseline before. When incorporating o1-preview generated explanations, the finetuned GPT-4o can achieve slightly higher accuracy than the average over human experts. Below, we give some details on the human expert experiments.

### 4.3.3 Human Expert Accuracy

To evaluate the performance of our model, we conducted a study with five highly renowned human experts in the New Yorker Cartoon Caption Con-
