| Source | Task | Input | Output |
|---|---|---|---|
| Tieba-JokeBar | Joke Generation/Continuation | The first sentence of a joke. | The complete joke. |
| CrossDial | Crosstalk Response Selection | Crosstalk script and choices. | The correct choice. |
| Chumor | Humor Explanation | A joke. | Joke punchline explanation. |
| HumorWB | Humor Recognition | A paragraph. | Humor label (**Humorous or Not humorous**). |
| Chinese-Humor-Sentiment | Crosstalk Generation | Crosstalk Script. | Continuation of the Script. |
| Crosstalk-Generation | Crosstalk Generation | Crosstalk script. | Continuation of the script. |
| CCL-2019-Chinese-Humor-Computation<sup>1</sup> | Joke Generation | A keyword or theme. | Joke with designated keyword or theme. |

Table 1: Various tasks in CFunSet.

(2025) explored the capability of LLMs to recognize laughable contexts. However, these studies did not fully explore the potential of LLMs for humor generation and processing. In contrast, our work developed a language model capable of humor-related tasks.

## 3 CFunSet Dataset

### 3.1 Overview

We meticulously selected several open-source datasets as the foundation of **CFunSet**. Additionally, data samples were collected from Tieba—JokeBar, a Chinese online forum where a variety of jokes are shared. The data sources and tasks in CFunSet are summarized in Table 1. The dataset creation process consists of two primary stages:

- **Data Collection and Processing** Several existing Chinese humor-related datasets were collected and refined. Data samples were extracted from Tieba—JokeBar and subsequently cleaned and processed to ensure consistency and usability.

- **Humor-Related Task Design** To enhance the model’s humor-related capacity, a diverse set of tasks was designed for each type of data sample.

### 3.2 Data Collection and Processing

We first cleared up datasets including Cross-Dial(Huang et al., 2022), Chumor2.0(He et al., 2024), HumorWB(Zeng et al., 2024), Chinese-Humor-Sentiment(liuhuanyong, 2018), Crosstalk-Generation(Li et al., 2023) and CCL2019-Chinese-Humor-Computation(DUTIR-Emotion-Group, 2019). We then collected posts and comments from Tieba—JokeBar that contained more than 50 characters. To ensure data quality, Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct was employed to filter out non-humorous content, retaining only texts classified as jokes. For data obtained from CCL2019-Chinese-Humor-Computation, Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct was also utilized to extract keywords and themes, which facilitated the subsequent task design stage, as discussed in Section 3.3.

The detailed data processing prompts are presented in Table 2.

### 3.3 Humor-related Task Design

Our humor-related tasks were designed to ensure a high degree of alignment with the data and a diverse range of task formats. Each sample in **CFunSet** consists of three components:

- **Instruction:** A description and prompt specifying the task type.

- **Input:** Relevant data upon which the output should be based.

- **Output:** The expected response generated for the task.

Examples of data samples and their structures are shown in Appendix(Table 6). And the following section provides a detailed description of the data and task design.

**Tieba—JokeBar** Jokes containing more than 50 characters were selected, with the first sentence extracted as the Input. The task assigned to the model is **Joke Generation/Continuation**, where the model should generate or continue the joke based on the provided input.
