| Processing Target | Prompt |
|---|---|
| Text filtering. | 以下是一段文本，请判断它是否具有幽默感。 符合条件的文本必须是单一的一条具有幽默性的笑话，并且没有任何其他的元素。只需要输出“符合条件”或“不符合条件”。文本如下：<br>{文本}<br>The following is a piece of text. Please determine whether it has a sense of humor. The text must be a single joke with humor and contain no other elements. Simply output "符合条件" (Valid) or "不符合条件" (Invalid). The text is as follows:<br>{Text} |
| Theme or keyword extraction. | 用简单的词语描述概括这个笑话的主题/关键词，仅输出主题/关键词即可：{笑话}<br>Use simple words to describe and summarize the theme/keyword of this joke. Output only the theme/keyword: {Joke} |

Table 2: Prompt template for data processing.

| Model | CrossDial-Dougen(ACC) | CrossDial-Penggen(ACC) | HumorWB(ACC) |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| GPT-4o | 79.67 | 73.88 | 83.41 |
| GPT-4o mini | 74.14 | 67.45 | 84.78 |
| DeepSeek-V3 | 83.66 | 78.16 | 85.15 |
| ERNIE | 84.54 | - | - |
| RoBERTa | - | 76.19 | - |
| Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct | 24.74 | 20.87 | 79.56 |
| CFunModel(ours) | **91.70** | **88.99** | **85.98** |

Table 3: Model performance on Crosstalk Response Selection and Humor Recognition tasks. ERNIE and RobERTa is the best models Huang et al. (2022) had trained for Dougen and Penggen Response Generation.

**CrossDial** CrossDial comprises source texts, multiple-choice options, and target texts. The task is **Crosstalk Response Selection**, where the model is tasked with selecting the most appropriate response from the options as the response for the given Crosstalk script segment.

**Chumor2.0** Chumor2.0 contains jokes and their corresponding punchline explanations. The jokes and explanations are used as the input and output for the **Humor Explanation** task, where the model is expected to provide accurate explanations for the jokes.

**HumorWB** HumorWB comprises texts sourced from the Chinese platform Weibo, along with labels indicating whether the texts are humorous. The texts from HumorWB are used as the input in the **Humor Recognition** task, where the model is required to determine whether a given text is humorous.

**Chinese-Humor-Sentiment/Crosstalk-Generation** Both datasets consist of Crosstalk scripts, and we specifically selected Dual Crosstalk scripts, which capture the dialogue between the two roles, Dougen and Penggen. The task is **Crosstalk Generation/Continuation**, where the model is tasked with completing a Crosstalk script based on a given script segment.

**CCL2019-Chinese-Humor-Computation** Human-written jokes from Task 1 and jokes labeled as 5 (the highest level of humor) from Task 2 of CCL2019-Chinese-Humor-Computation were selected as the input. Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct was utilized to extract keywords or themes, and the corresponding task is **Joke Generation**, where the model is required to generate a joke based on the extracted keyword or theme.

## 4 CFunModel

**CFunModel** is trained to address a variety of humor-related tasks, including Crosstalk Response Selection, Humor Recognition, Crosstalk and Joke Generation. The prompt structure is a combination of **Instruction** and **Input**, as described in Section 3.2.

The base model used is Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct. Supervised fine-tuning was performed using **CFun-Set** as the training data for 2 epochs, with a learning rate of 2e-5 and a batch size of 128. The training process was conducted on four A40 GPUs, and we set the temperature to 0 during the evaluation stage.
