incorrect punctuation may still be present in the final dataset.

## Ethical Considerations

This study introduces CFunSet. Regarding intellectual property, all data sources used in this dataset are publicly available on the internet.

Although the dataset has been reviewed and multiple techniques have been employed to eliminate inappropriate language, there remains the possibility that some content may inadvertently cause offense.

## References

Andrew Cattle and Xiaojuan Ma. 2018. Recognizing humour using word associations and humour anchor extraction. In *Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Computational Linguistics*, pages 1849–1858, Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yuyan Chen, Zhixu Li, Jiaqing Liang, Yanghua Xiao, Bang Liu, and Yunwen Chen. 2024a. Can pretrained language models understand chinese humor? *Preprint*, arXiv:2407.04105.

Yuyan Chen, Yichen Yuan, Panjun Liu, Dayiheng Liu, Qinghao Guan, Mengfei Guo, Haiming Peng, Bang Liu, Zhixu Li, and Yanghua Xiao. 2024b. Talk funny! a large-scale humor response dataset with chain-of-humor interpretation. *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, 38(16):17826–17834.

DeepSeek-AI, Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, Damai Dai, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Deli Chen, Dongjie Ji, Erhang Li, Fangyun Lin, Fucong Dai, and 181 others. 2025. Deepseek-v3 technical report. *Preprint*, arXiv:2412.19437.

DUTIR-Emotion-Group. 2019. Ccl2019-chinese-humor-computation.

Ruiqi He, Yushu He, Longju Bai, Jiarui Liu, Zhenjie Sun, Zenghao Tang, He Wang, Hanchen Xia, Rada Mihalcea, and Naihao Deng. 2024. Chumor 2.0: Towards benchmarking chinese humor understanding. *Preprint*, arXiv:2412.17729.

Baizhou Huang, Shikang Du, and Xiaojun Wan. 2022. Crossdial: An entertaining dialogue dataset of chinese crosstalk. *Preprint*, arXiv:2209.01370.

Koji Inoue, Mikey Elmers, Divesh Lala, and Tatsuya Kawahara. 2025. Why do we laugh? annotation and taxonomy generation for laughable contexts in spontaneous text conversation. *Preprint*, arXiv:2501.16635.

Jianquan Li, XiangBo Wu, Xiaokang Liu, Qianqian Xie, Prayag Tiwari, and Benyou Wang. 2023. Can language models make fun? a case study in Chinese comical crosstalk. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 7581–7596, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

liuhuanyong. 2018. Chinesehumorsentiment.

Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In *Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting on Association for Computational Linguistics*, ACL ’02, page 311–318, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Saša Petrović and David Matthews. 2013. Unsupervised joke generation from big data. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 228–232, Sofia, Bulgaria. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zhiwei Yu, Jiwei Tan, and Xiaojun Wan. 2018. A neural approach to pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 1650–1660, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zeyuan Zeng, Zefeng Li, Liang Yang, and Hongfei Lin. 2024. Leveraging social context for humor recognition and sense of humor evaluation in social media with a new Chinese humor corpus - HumorWB. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024)*, pages 10393–10402, Torino, Italia. ELRA and ICCL.

## Appendix
