Liliya A. Demidova. 2021. Two-stage hybrid data classifiers based on svm and knn algorithms. *Symmetry*, 13(4).

Diwakar and Deepa Raj. 2024. DistilBERT-based Text Classification for Automated Diagnosis of Mental Health Conditions. In *Microbial Data Intelligence and Computational Techniques for Sustainable Computing*, pages 93–106.

Abbas Edalat. 2023. Self-initiated humour protocols: An algorithmic approach for learning to laugh. *PsyArXiv*, 5:1–14.

Hong Fang, Dahao Liang, and Weiyu Xiang. 2024. Single-Stage Extensive Semantic Fusion for multimodal sarcasm detection. *Array*, 22:100344.

William Kodom Gyasi. 2023. Humor as an ice breaker in marital tension: A family communication perspective. *Mediterranean Journal of Social & Behavioral Research*, 7(2):103–111.

William P Hampes. 2007. The Relation Between Humor Styles and Empathy. *Europe’s Journal of Psychology*, 6(3):34–45.

He He, Nanyun Peng, and Percy Liang. 2019. Pun Generation with Surprise. In *Proceedings of NAACL-HLT*, pages 1734–1744, Minneapolis. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Lena Hedin, Ingrid Höjer, and Elinor Brunnberg. 2012. Jokes and routines make everyday life a good life-on ’doing family’ for young people in foster care in Sweden. *European Journal of Social Work*, 15(5):613–628.

Koji Inoue, Divesh Lala, and Tatsuya Kawahara. 2022. Can a robot laugh with you?: Shared laughter generation for empathetic spoken dialogue. *Frontiers in Robotics and AI*, 9.

Arunima Jaiswal, Monika Anshu, Mathur Prachi, and Sheena Mattu. 2019. Automatic Humour Detection in Tweets using Soft Computing Paradigms. In *2019 International Conference on Machine Learning, Big Data, Cloud and Parallel Computing (Com-IT-Con)*, pages 172–176.

Daniela Jeder. 2015. Implications of Using Humor in the Classroom. *Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences*, 180:828–833.

Yu Jiang, Guoxiang Tong, Henan Yin, and Naixue Xiong. 2019. A Pedestrian Detection Method Based on Genetic Algorithm for Optimize XGBoost Training Parameters. *IEEE Access*, 7:118310–118321.

Wei Jin. 2020. Research on Machine Learning and Its Algorithms and Development. *Journal of Physics: Conference Series*, 1544:1–6.

Jarrad Jinks. 2023. Intermediate Task Ensembling for Sarcasm Detection. In *Bramer, M., Stahl, F. (eds) Artificial Intelligence XL*, volume 14381, pages 19–32. Springer, Cham, Oldenburg.

Ashraf Kamal and Muhammad Abulaish. 2020. Self-deprecating Humor Detection: A Machine Learning Approach. In Le-Minh Nguyen, Xuan-Hieu Phan, Kôiti Hasida, and Satoshi Tojo, editors, *Computer Linguistics*, volume 1215 of *Communications in Computer and Information Science*, pages 483–484. Springer Singapore, Singapore.

Mary Ogbuka Kenneth, Foaad Khosmood, and Abbas Edalat. 2024. Systematic Literature Review: Computational Approaches for Humour Style Classification. Technical report.

Muhammad Umar Khan, Sumair Aziz, Khushbakht Iqtidar, Galila Faisal Zaher, Shareefa Alghamdi, and Munazza Gull. 2022. A two-stage classification model integrating feature fusion for coronary artery disease detection and classification. *Multimedia Tools and Applications*, 81(10):13661–13690.

I. I. Khramtsova and T. S. Chuykova. 2016. Mindfulness and self-compassion as predictors of humor styles in US and Russia. *Social Psychology and Society*, 7(2):93–108.

Nicholas Kuiper, Gillian Kirsh, and Nadia Maiolino. 2016. Identity and Intimacy Development, Humor Styles, and Psychological Well-Being. *Identity*, 16(2):115–125.

Sean Lee, Aamir Shakir, Darius Koenig, and Julius Lipp. 2024. Open Source Strikes Bread - New Fluffy Embeddings Model (emb2024mxbai).

Xianming Li and Jing Li. 2023. AnglE-optimized Text Embeddings. *arXiv preprint*.

Zehan Li, Xin Zhang, Yanzhao Zhang, Dingkun Long, Pengjun Xie, and Meishan Zhang. 2023. Towards General Text Embeddings with Multi-stage Contrastive Learning. *arXiv preprint*.

Bin Liang, Chenwei Lou, Xiang Li, Lin Gui, Min Yang, and Ruifeng Xu. 2021. Multi-Modal Sarcasm Detection with Interactive In-Modal and Cross-Modal Graphs. In *MM 2021 - Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia*, pages 4707–4715. Association for Computing Machinery, Inc.

Jackson G. Lu. 2023. Cultural differences in humor: A systematic review and critique.

Fuli Luo, Shunyao Li, Pengcheng Yang, Lei li, Baobao Chang, Zhifang Sui, and Xu Sun. 2019. Pun-GAN: Generative Adversarial Network for Pun Generation.

Rod A Martin and Thomas Ford. 2018. *The psychology of humor: An integrative approach*, 2nd edition. Academic Press.

Rod A Martin, Patricia Puhlik-Doris, Gwen Larsen, Jeanette Gray, and Kelly Weir. 2003. Individual differences in uses of humor and their relation to psychological well-being: Development of the Humor Styles Questionnaire. *Journal of Research in Personality*, 37:48–75.
