Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Tom Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large language models. *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, 36, 2024.

Qinghao Ye, Haiyang Xu, Guohai Xu, Jiabo Ye, Ming Yan, Yiyang Zhou, Junyang Wang, Anwen Hu, Pengcheng Shi, Yaya Shi, et al. mplug-owl: Modularization empowers large language models with multimodality. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.14178*, 2023.

Andy Zeng, Maria Attarian, Brian Ichter, Krzysztof Choromanski, Adrian Wong, Stefan Welker, Federico Tombari, Aveek Purohit, Michael Ryoo, Vikas Sindhwani, et al. Socratic models: Composing zero-shot multimodal reasoning with language. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.00598*, 2022.

Weihao Zeng, Can Xu, Yingxiu Zhao, Jian-Guang Lou, and Weizhu Chen. Automatic instruction evolving for large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.00770*, 2024.

Hang Zhang, Dayiheng Liu, Jiancheng Lv, and Cheng Luo. Let’s be humorous: Knowledge enhanced humor generation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.13317*, 2020.

Zhuosheng Zhang, Aston Zhang, Mu Li, and Alex Smola. Automatic chain of thought prompting in large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03493*, 2022.

Shanshan Zhong, Zhongzhan Huang, Shanghua Gao, Wushao Wen, Liang Lin, Marinka Zitnik, and Pan Zhou. Let’s think outside the box: Exploring leap-of-thought in large language models with creative humor generation. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*, pp. 13246–13257, 2024.

Jeffrey Zhou, Tianjian Lu, Swaroop Mishra, Siddhartha Brahma, Sujoy Basu, Yi Luan, Denny Zhou, and Le Hou. Instruction-following evaluation for large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.07911*, 2023.

# A Appendix

## A.1 Training and Experiment Details

**Training pipeline:**  
LoL takes a two-stage training strategy. In the first process (supervised fine-tuning (SFT)), we randomly initialize a LoRA model. And we train the model with single-turn question-answer format data (data from Figure 2(a)(b)(c)) and muti-turn question-answer format data (data from Figure 2(d) and AIE). In the second process (Direct Preference Learning (DPO)), the first stage model serves as ref model, and it is frozen as judgement model. The tunable model is trained to improve the reasoning generation capability. At the beginning of stage 2, only preference question-answer data without rationale is fed into the tunable model for training. After several steps, the rationale for each online generated response is extracted using GPT-4o and the preference question-answer data with rationales are mixed into the original dataset. And in each batch, the ratio of ’w’ and ’w/o’ rationale is 1 : 1.

**Implementation Details** We validate the validity of LoL mainly based on QWEN1.5-32B-Chat Bai et al. (2023) using the LoRA Hu et al. (2021) on 8 A100 GPUs. For the first stage, we train the model on 95% of the dataset mentioned above for 6 epochs using the AdamW optimizer with a learning rate of $3e - 4$. In the second stage, 5% of the dataset is used to train GESIT for 3 epochs using the AdamW optimizer with a learning rate of $2e - 4$. The models are tested on the tasks introduced in the previous part. And more parameters used in generation are listed in Table 7.

**Experiments parameters:**

Table 6: Parameters in Validate

| temperature | top k | top p | length penalty |
|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | 50 | 1.0 | 1.0 |
