Jay A Olson, Johnny Nahas, Denis Chmoulevitch, Simon J Cropper, and Margaret E Webb. Naming unrelated words predicts creativity. *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences*, 118(25): e2022340118, 2021.

Michael Park, Erin Leahey, and Russell J Funk. Papers and patents are becoming less disruptive over time. *Nature*, 613(7942):138–144, 2023.

Yiwei Qin, Xuefeng Li, Haoyang Zou, Yixiu Liu, Shijie Xia, Zhen Huang, Yixin Ye, Weizhe Yuan, Hector Liu, Yuanzhi Li, et al. O1 replication journey: A strategic progress report–part 1. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.18982*, 2024a.

Yiwei Qin, Kaiqiang Song, Yebowen Hu, Wenlin Yao, Sangwoo Cho, Xiaoyang Wang, Xuansheng Wu, Fei Liu, Pengfei Liu, and Dong Yu. Infobench: Evaluating instruction following ability in large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.03601*, 2024b.

Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea Finn. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model. *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, 36, 2024.

Abulhair Saparov and He He. Language models are greedy reasoners: A systematic formal analysis of chain-of-thought. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.01240*, 2022.

Dafna Shahaf, Eric Horvitz, and Robert Mankoff. Inside jokes: Identifying humorous cartoon captions. In *Proceedings of the 21th ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining*, pp. 1065–1074, 2015.

Douglas Summers-Stay, Clare R Voss, and Stephanie M Lukin. Brainstorm, then select: a generative language model improves its creativity score. In *The AAAI-23 Workshop on Creative AI Across Modalities*, 2023.

Haoran Sun, Lixin Liu, Junjie Li, Fengyu Wang, Baohua Dong, Ran Lin, and Ruohui Huang. Conifer: Improving complex constrained instruction-following ability of large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.02823*, 2024.

Jiashuo Sun, Chengjin Xu, Lumingyuan Tang, Saizhuo Wang, Chen Lin, Yeyun Gong, Heung-Yeung Shum, and Jian Guo. Think-on-graph: Deep and responsible reasoning of large language model with knowledge graph. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.07697*, 2023a.

Yuqian Sun, Xingyu Li, Jun Peng, and Ze Gao. Inspire creativity with oriba: Transform artists’ original characters into chatbots through large language model. In *Adjunct Proceedings of the 2023 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing & the 2023 ACM International Symposium on Wearable Computing*, pp. 78–82, 2023b.

Ben Swanson, Kory Mathewson, Ben Pietrzak, Sherol Chen, and Monica Dinalescu. Story centaur: Large language model few shot learning as a creative writing tool. In *Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations*, pp. 244–256, 2021.

Kohtaro Tanaka, Hiroaki Yamane, Yusuke Mori, Yusuke Mukuta, and Tatsuya Harada. Learning to evaluate humor in memes based on the incongruity theory. In *Proceedings of the Second Workshop on When Creative AI Meets Conversational AI*, pp. 81–93, 2022.

Qwen Team. Qvq: To see the world with wisdom, December 2024a. URL https://qwenlm.github.io/blog/qvq-72b-preview/.

Qwen Team. Qwq: Reflect deeply on the boundaries of the unknown, November 2024b. URL https://qwenlm.github.io/blog/qwq-32b-preview/.

Alessandro Valitutti, Hannu Toivonen, Antoine Doucet, and Jukka M Toivanen. “let everything turn well in your wife”: generation of adult humor using lexical constraints. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pp. 243–248, 2013.
