erating novel ideas. Therefore, we develop a reasoning process featuring the processes of thinking divergence and reflection for humor generation.

**Instruction evolutionary.** Recent attention has focused on the complex instruction-following capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs), leading to the development of new evaluation benchmarks (Zhou et al., 2023; Jiang et al., 2023; Qin et al., 2024b). These studies consistently reveal that open-source LLMs lag behind proprietary models in their ability to follow complex instructions. However, there has been limited research on techniques to enhance this capability. Notable exceptions include Evol-Instruct (Xu et al., 2023; Zeng et al., 2024) and Conifer (Sun et al., 2024), which encourage LLMs to evolve instruction complexity and apply supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on the data generated from this process. Automated generation is a widely-used method for Evol-Instruct, minimizing the reliance on extensive human annotation or manual data collection. This approach utilizes LLMs to create large volumes of instructional data sourced from chat data (Chiang et al., 2023) or by expanding a small set of seed instructions (Wang et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023). The generated instructions are then used to derive corresponding inputs and outputs. In this paper, LoL develops an automatic instruction evolution method with three agents to strengthen the ability of thinking divergence and humor understanding.

**Large language models reasoning.** Human cognition involves two distinct modes of processing: one that is fast and intuitive, and the other that is deliberate and analytical. Currently, LLMs can not only generate rapid responses using learned patterns, but more significantly, simulate complex reasoning processes through mechanisms like chain-of-thought (Wu et al., 2022; Wei et al., 2022; Zhang et al., 2022; Yao et al., 2024; Long, 2023) or other forms of search, similar to how humans engage in deeper, step-by-step thinking (Fu et al., 2022; Lightman et al., 2023; Lai et al., 2024). However, these approaches build on existing LLMs without truly embedding the chain-of-thought ability within the models themselves. As a result, LLMs cannot inherently learn this reasoning capability, leading to active research on how to integrate it directly into model training. Most of these efforts(Qin et al., 2024a; Luong et al., 2024; Team, 2024b; Yang et al., 2024; Team, 2024a; Wang et al., 2024; o1 Team, 2024) focus on improving LLM reasoning by integrating process supervision, reinforcement learning (RL), and inference-time computation strategies such as guided search. By doing so, it shifts the focus from merely scaling model parameters during pre-training to leveraging smarter inference strategies at test time. These techniques help the model refine its reasoning step by step, allowing it to pause, evaluate intermediate reasoning, and select better solution pathways during test-time computation. All of these are adept at factual reasoning like math or coding reasoning, while humor reasoning is mostly non-factual reasoning requiring creative thinking.

## 5 Conclusion

In this paper, we introduce the LoL method aimed at enhancing the generation capabilities of large language models (LLMs). LoL commences by transforming humor datasets into instruction-tuning data to train LLMs, thus improving their logical thinking (LoT) and judgment abilities. Subsequently, LoL utilizes Guided Explorative Self-Improvement Tuning, enabling LLMs to generate more creative structured thought data by understanding rationales and to select high-quality data for self-refinement training. Experimental results illustrate the effectiveness and generalization ability of LoL across diverse tasks, such as witty response generation and humor discrimination.

## Acknowledgments

This work was done during internship at Tencent QQ, as a part of QQ MLLM project and supported in part by NSFC under grant No.62125305, No.62088102, No. U23A20339, No. 62203348.

## References

Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. A survey on approaches to computational humor generation. In *Proceedings of the 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, pp. 29–41, 2020.

Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Shusheng Yang, Shijie Wang, Sinan Tan, Peng Wang, Junyang Lin, Chang Zhou, and Jingren Zhou. Qwen-vl: A versatile vision-language model for understanding, localization, text reading, and beyond. 2023.
