GPT-4o). Specifically, the average accuracy in diverse English benchmarks has increased by 4.55% and 5.91% respectively.

**Evaluation on Judgement tasks in Chinese.** We also evaluate the accuracy rate (acc%) of completing each selection task in Chinese and show the performance of several models in Table 2. Overall, compared with open-source language models including LLaMA3 and QWEN, the state-of-the-art closed-source large language models show impressive zero-shot performance on humor judgement tasks in Chinese. The model trained by LoL also shows a significant improvement compared to other models (such as GPT-4o) (with an average accuracy in diverse Chinese benchmark increase of 16.22%).

We also conduct an additional experiment on the Ruozhiba dataset<sup>*</sup>, which most well-known large language models (LLMs) have been trained on. We asked GPT-4o to rewrite the Ruozhiba queries into question-answer pairs, placing the punchline in the answer section. Then, we asked GPT-4o again to rewrite the ground-truth answers into non - humorous versions. Based on the positive-negative pair data, the LLMs were tested, and the results are shown in Table 9. The results indicate that CLoST also achieves state-of-the-art performance on the Ruozhiba dataset.

Table 2: The accuracy (%) of choice questions on various Algorithms in Chinese benchmarks.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th colspan="2" rowspan="2">Model</th>
      <th colspan="2">Chinese Benchmark</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>2T1</th>
      <th>2T1(hard)</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>GPT</td>
      <td>4o</td>
      <td>64.98</td>
      <td>63.49</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="2">LLAMA3</td>
      <td>8B</td>
      <td>50.72</td>
      <td>57.44</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>70B</td>
      <td>59.48</td>
      <td>61.22</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="3">QWEN1.5</td>
      <td>7B</td>
      <td>54.82</td>
      <td>51.71</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>14B</td>
      <td>53.45</td>
      <td>57.41</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>32B</td>
      <td>52.71</td>
      <td>56.27</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="2">QWEN2</td>
      <td>7B</td>
      <td>51.99</td>
      <td>58.17</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>57B</td>
      <td>65.91</td>
      <td>57.03</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>QWEN2.5</td>
      <td>32B</td>
      <td>61.53</td>
      <td>60.46</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Baichuan2</td>
      <td>13B</td>
      <td>50.56</td>
      <td>53.61</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>CLoT</td>
      <td>7B</td>
      <td>52.12</td>
      <td>34.46</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>QwQ</td>
      <td>32B</td>
      <td>59.75</td>
      <td>57.04</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>QwQ+LoL</td>
      <td>32B</td>
      <td>88.91</td>
      <td>63.12</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>OURS</td>
      <td>32B</td>
      <td><strong>90.95</strong></td>
      <td><strong>69.97</strong></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Evaluation on Creative-thinking validation in Generation Tasks.** To evaluate the associative generalization capability of LoL, we test it on a creative task known as the Divergent Association Task (DAT). The DAT is a classic creativity test in which testee write 10 unrelated words, and words with greater “distances” in their context embeddings indicate more divergent thinking. In the Chinese creativity test, we utilize Chinese Word Vectors (Li et al., 2018) to calculate the DAT score. First, we provide specific words and ask the model to generate associations and imaginations, obtaining 10 associated words. Then, we use these 11 words to calculate the DAT score. Additionally, we test how the model’s DAT score varies as the number of test words increases. It can be observed that as the number of words increases, the DAT score also tends to stabilize. From the average of each domain, it can be seen that LoL has the highest score after stabilization. As shown in Figure 5, LoL has a slight performance improvement in the mean value of DAT compared to Qwen1.5-32B, GPT-4o and CLoT.

In addition, we employ T-SNE to project the embedding vectors of these words into a two-dimensional space. specifically, the target word is positioned at the center, and a circle is drawn with a radius equal to the Euclidean distance between the target word’s embedding and that of the farthest associated word. In Figure 5(c) and (d), the embedding vectors of five target words and their associated words are illustrated, with different colors representing different target vectors. A larger circle indicates a broader semantic range for the target word, implying a greater number of associated words. In both tests, LoL outperforms previous works including SOTA models like GPT-4o.

**Human Evaluation in Generation Tasks.** We conduct a user-preference study to test the creativity and humor of LLMs. Here, we select four LLMs (LoL, GPT-4o, QWEN1.5-32B, CLoT) to generate responses for a total of 200 text-based questions. We present a question and several corresponding replies from the four LLMs, and ask users to choose the most creative and humorous response. Figure 6(c) summarizes the statistical analysis of 3000 valid surveys. Figure 6(b) shows the win-rate calculated based on the problem dimension. The results indicate that users have a strong inclination

<sup>*</sup>https://github.com/Leymore/ruozhiba/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file
