will facilitate LLMs in deepening and broadening their understanding of the underlying logic and rationales.

2. We propose a teacher-student prompt system to enhance the judgment ability of LLMs. Through the automatic construction of conversation data between the teacher and the student, LLMs learn the teacher’s judgment of the student’s thinking.

3. Experimental results demonstrate that we can enhance both the model’s judgment and generative capabilities and achieve state-of-the-art performance.

## 2 Method

### 2.1 Problem Formulation

The multi-hop reasoning issue can be framed as a knowledge-graph (KG) problem. In this context, nodes (or concepts) along the multi-hop path are entities within the KG, and the rationales for enabling multi-hop reasoning are relations within the KG. By enriching the entities and relations in the KG, we can more easily explore the self-evolved path in multi-hop reasoning.

In general, the knowledge graph $\mathcal{G}$ is defined as a set of triples $\mathcal{G}=\{(e,r,e') \mid e,e' \in \mathcal{E},\ r \in \mathcal{R}\}$, where $\mathcal{E}$ is the set of entities and $\mathcal{R}$ is the set of relations. Each triple represents a relation $r$ from the head entity $e$ to the tail entity $e'$ (Sun et al., 2023a; Yang et al., 2023). In the specific application of humor generation, we consider a knowledge graph composed of question-related entities $\mathcal{E}_Q$ and answer-related entities $\mathcal{E}_A$. The intersection $\mathcal{E}_Z=\mathcal{E}_Q \cap \mathcal{E}_A$ is regarded as the set of correlation entities (we refer to them as correlation entities here). Given the creative and unexpected nature of humor, as well as the existence of causal relationships between questions and answers, $\mathcal{E}_Z$ may consist of pseudo-correlation entities between $\mathcal{E}_Q$ and $\mathcal{E}_A$, such as those involved in puns (i.e., $\mathcal{E}_Z \to \mathcal{E}_Q$, $\mathcal{E}_Z \to \mathcal{E}_A$, and $\mathcal{E}_Q \to \mathcal{E}_A$). Additionally, it can also follow the pattern $\mathcal{E}_Q \to \mathcal{E}_Z \to \mathcal{E}_A$, as shown in Figure 17. Clearly, it can be inferred that $\mathcal{E}_Z$ is pivotal for enabling the multi-hop in the humor reasoning.

Therefore, we formulate the causal relation $R_c$ into a verbal description as shown in Figure 12, which contains the correlation entities $\mathcal{E}_Z$ either explicitly or implicitly. Finally, our objective is to expand the scopes of $\mathcal{E}_Q$ and $\mathcal{E}_A$, and utilize the causal relationship to structure the reasoning path. This is beneficial for mitigating the information insufficiency problem and further enabling humor reasoning.

The overall training framework is illustrated in Figure 4. In the first stage, supervised fine-tuning (SFT), we randomly initialize a LoRA model and train it using both single-turn and multi-turn question-answer format data. In the second stage, Direct Preference Learning (DPO), the model from the first stage serves as a reference model and is frozen to act as the judgment model when self-evolving. The tunable model is trained with preference question-answer data, which helps the model improve its logical reasoning and learn human preferences.

### 2.2 Diverse Instruction Expansion and Tuning

A reward model can optimize the behavior of large language models by providing feedback, enabling them to generate outputs that better meet expectations. However, due to the subjectivity inherent in humor, a unified scoring system (i.e., a pointwise reward model) may be plagued by significant noise, such as topics, background and so on. Additionally, human-voting (i.e., Likes) data from the community is readily available. Transforming it into pairwise data is not only easier but also more in line with human intuition of selecting the more humorous one from two responses. Consequently, we adopt a judgement model (i.e., pairwise reward model) to offer feedback, thereby further enhancing the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs).

To stimulate the judgment capability of a model, we manually design a judgment-oriented template as shown in Figure 2. Additionally, the understanding capability is enhanced to improve both the judgment and generation capabilities through automatic instruction evolution.

**Judgement Template Design.** Question-answer data with human-voting annotations are utilized for judgment tasks.
