Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025

# INNOVATIVE THINKING, INFINITE HUMOR: HUMOR RESEARCH OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS THROUGH STRUCTURED THOUGHT LEAPS

**Han Wang<sup>*1,2</sup>, Yilin Zhao<sup>*2</sup>, Dian Li<sup>†‡2</sup>, Xiaohan Wang<sup>1,2</sup>, Gang Liu<sup>2</sup>, Xuguang Lan<sup>† 1</sup>, Hui Wang<sup>2</sup>**  
Xi’an Jiaotong University<sup>1</sup>; Tencent QQ<sup>2</sup>  
`reload7@stu.xjtu.edu.cn`,  
`{yilinnzhao,goodli,shawnbywang,sinbadliu}@tencent.com`,  
`xglan@mail.xjtu.edu.cn, joltwang@tencent.com`

## ABSTRACT

Humor is previously regarded as a gift exclusive to humans for the following reasons. Humor is a culturally nuanced aspect of human language, presenting challenges for its understanding and generation. Humor generation necessitates a multi-hop reasoning process, with each hop founded on proper rationales. Although many studies, such as those related to GPT-o1, focus on logical reasoning with reflection and correction, they still fall short in humor generation. Due to the sparsity of the knowledge graph in creative thinking, it is arduous to achieve multi-hop reasoning. Consequently, in this paper, we propose a more robust framework for addressing the humor reasoning task, named LoL. LoL aims to inject external information to mitigate the sparsity of the knowledge graph, thereby enabling multi-hop reasoning. In the first stage of LoL, we put forward an automatic instruction-evolution method to incorporate the deeper and broader thinking processes underlying humor. Judgment-oriented instructions are devised to enhance the model’s judgment capability, dynamically supplementing and updating the sparse knowledge graph. Subsequently, through reinforcement learning, the reasoning logic for each online-generated response is extracted using GPT-4o. In this process, external knowledge is re-introduced to aid the model in logical reasoning and the learning of human preferences. Finally, experimental results indicate that the combination of these two processes can enhance both the model’s judgment ability and its generative capacity. These findings deepen our comprehension of the creative capabilities of large language models (LLMs) and offer approaches to boost LLMs’ creative abilities for cross-domain innovative applications.

## 1 INTRODUCTION

Currently, humor is attractive because, as shown in Figure 1, it requires a burst of inspiration, which is still difficult for humans. The difficulty lies in the multi-hop reasoning process that fosters creativity. Each hop in this process is based on proper rationales. Without an understanding of these rationales, it is difficult for the model to grasp the internal humorous logic, making it prone to relying on pattern recognition.

So far, the Creative Leap of Thought (CLoT) paradigm (Xu et al., 2024) has developed two basic abilities to facilitate humor generation: selection skill and ranking skill. With these two basic skills, CLoT introduces nouns as instruction back-translation for self-improvement. However, only question-answer pairs, i.e., the beginning and ending of the multi-hop reasoning path, are utilized to train the model. As mentioned in CLoT, this process only captures the inherent creative patterns within the data which impairs the generalization ability and fails to stimulate “thinking outside the

---

<sup>*</sup>Equal Contribution. Work done during internship at Tencent QQ, as a part of QQ MLLM project  
<sup>†</sup>corresponding author  
<sup>‡</sup>Project leader of QQ MLLM project
