Appendix A.4 for details). This process expands the preference dataset to $D = D_0 \cup \widetilde{D}$, where $\widetilde{D} = \{(q, \tilde{a}^{+}, \tilde{a}^{-}, \tilde{r}^{+}, \tilde{r}^{-})\}$.

## 3 Experiments

We collect humor-related data with human-voting from humor games and communities, and then organize it into the format mentioned in Section 2.2. Since we enhance the generation ability based on the judgment capability, it is crucial to verify the performance in humor-judgment tasks. Thus, we construct single-choice questions at different difficulty levels and carry out the consensus generation task validation.

### 3.1 Datasets source

(1) Oogiri-GO (Zhong et al., 2024). In the ”Oogiri game”, participants are required to give unexpected and humorous responses to given images, text, or both. This game demands a sudden burst of insight and strong associative thinking within the given context. Similar to the processing method of CLoT (Zhong et al., 2024), we randomly select 95% of the samples to construct the training dataset, and the remaining 5% is used to form the test dataset for validation and analysis.

(2) SemEval 2021 Task 7 Meaney et al. (2021) contains binary labels and ratings collected from a balanced age group ranging from 18 to 70 years old. Data with binary labels and ratings are utilized to construct the easy-case task and the hard-case task mentioned in Section 3.2 respectively.

(3) SemEval 2020 Task 7 (Hossain et al., 2020a) is a game to change a word in a headline to make it funnier. It also contains binary labels and ratings which are utilized to construct the easy-case task and the hard-case task.

(4) Chinese Community Data. We collect data from various Chinese communities, including Ruozhiba and others. Human-voting (i.e., Likes) labels are readily available, and we use them to construct both easy-case and hard-case tasks.

### 3.2 Tasks construction

(1) Inspired by the task design in CLoT(Zhong et al., 2024), we develop judgement-related tasks as follows.

**Easy-case Task (i.e. $2T1$).** Single-choice-from-two-options questions are constructed from the binary-label data mentioned above and the data with the largest gap in human-voting counts. The construction adheres to the template depicted in Figure 2(a).

**Hard-case Task (i.e. $2T1(Hard), 3T1, 4T1$).** Single-choice-from-two(or three or four)-options questions are constructed from the same source with a closer gap in human-voting counts. The construction adheres to the template depicted in Figure 2(a).

(2) Inspired by the generation tasks designed in CLoT(Zhong et al., 2024), the Divergent Associate Thinking (DAT) task (Olson et al., 2021) to validate the capability of creativity is carried out. Additionally, human evaluation will also be validated.

Table 1: Humor judgement validation on ruozhiba dataset

| Model | 2T1 |
|---|---:|
| GPT-4o | 76.40 |
| QWEN1.5-32B | 68.85 |
| CLoT | 50.20 |
| QwQ | 90.80 |
| LoL | 95.35 |

### 3.3 Results Analysis

**Evaluation on Judgement tasks in English.** We validate the top-1 accuracy of completing each judgement task and show the performance of several models in Table 3. Overall, compared with open-source language models such as LLaMA3, QWEN and so on, state-of-the-art closed-source LLMs exhibit impressive zero-shot performance in humor judgement tasks. Model trained by LoL has significantly improved compared to other models (such as LLAMA3-70B and
