[75] EunJeong Hwang, Peter West, and Vered Shwartz. Bottlehumor: Self-informed humor explanation using the information bottleneck principle. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18331*, 2025.

[76] Nicholas Ichien, Du Stamenkovićá, Keith Holyoak, et al. Interpretation of novel literary metaphors by humans and gpt-4. In *Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society*, volume 46, 2024.

[77] Pau Rodriguez Inserte, Mariam Nakhlé, Raheel Qader, Gaetan Caillaut, and Jingshu Liu. Large language model adaptation for financial sentiment analysis. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.14777*, 2024.

[78] Veedant Jain, Felipe dos Santos Alves Feitosa, and Gabriel Kreiman. Is ai fun? humordb: a curated dataset and benchmark to investigate graphical humor. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.13564*, 2024.

[79] Soumyadeep Jana, Abhrajyoti Kundu, and Sanasam Ranbir Singh. Dual modality-aware gated prompt tuning for few-shot multimodal sarcasm detection. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.04468*, 2025.

[80] Soumyadeep Jana, Abhrajyoti Kundu, and Sanasam Ranbir Singh. Think twice before you judge: Mixture of dual reasoning experts for multimodal sarcasm detection. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.04458*, 2025.

[81] Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Teven Le Scao, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, and William El Sayed. Mistral 7b, 2023.

[82] Albert Q Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Antoine Roux, Arthur Mensch, Blanche Savary, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Emma Bou Hanna, Florian Bressand, et al. Mixtral of experts. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.04088*, 2024.

[83] Dongjin Kang, Sunghwan Kim, Taeyoon Kwon, Seungjun Moon, Hyunsouk Cho, Youngjae Yu, Dongha Lee, and Jinyoung Yeo. Can large language models be good emotional supporter? mitigating preference bias on emotional support conversation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.13211*, 2024.

[84] Alina Karakanta, Mayra Nas, and Aletta G Dorst. Metaphors in literary machine translation: Close but no cigar? *Proceedings of Machine Translation Summit XX Volume*, 1:276–286, 2025.

[85] Kiana Kheiri and Hamid Karimi. Sentimentgpt: Exploiting gpt for advanced sentiment analysis and its departure from current machine learning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.10234*, 2023.

[86] Mikhail Khodak, Nikunj Saunshi, and Kiran Vodrahalli. A large self-annotated corpus for sarcasm. In *Proceedings of the Linguistic Resource and Evaluation Conference (LREC)*, 2018.

[87] Jeongyeon Kim, Sangho Suh, Lydia B Chilton, and Haijun Xia. Metaphorian: Leveraging large language models to support extended metaphor creation for science writing. In *Proceedings of the 2023 ACM Designing Interactive Systems Conference*, pages 115–135, 2023.

[88] Kemal Kirtac and Guido Germano. Large language models in finance: what is financial sentiment? *arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.03612*, 2025.

[89] Beata Beigman Klebanov, Chee Wee Leong, and Michael Flor. A corpus of non-native written english annotated for metaphor. In *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers)*, pages 86–91, 2018.

[90] Alapan Kuila and Sudeshna Sarkar. Deciphering political entity sentiment in news with large language models: Zero-shot and few-shot strategies. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.04361*, 2024.
