[218] Boyu Zhang, Hongyang Yang, and Xiao-Yang Liu. Instruct-fingpt: Financial sentiment analysis by instruction tuning of general-purpose large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.12659*, 2023.

[219] Boyu Zhang, Hongyang Yang, Tianyu Zhou, Muhammad Ali Babar, and Xiao-Yang Liu. Enhancing financial sentiment analysis via retrieval augmented large language models. In *Proceedings of the fourth ACM international conference on AI in finance*, pages 349–356, 2023.

[220] Dongyu Zhang, Xingyuan Lu, Mulin Zhuang, Senqi Yang, and Hongjun Chen. Multimodal metaphor recognition based on chain-of-cognition prompting. *Cognitive Systems Research*, 91:101356, 2025.

[221] Dongyu Zhang, Shengcheng Yin, Jingwei Yu, Zhiyao Wu, Zhen Li, Chengpei Xu, Xiaoxia Wang, and Feng Xia. Towards multimodal metaphor understanding: A chinese dataset and model for metaphor mapping identification. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.02434*, 2025.

[222] Ting Zhang, Ivana Clairine Irsan, Ferdian Thung, and David Lo. Revisiting sentiment analysis for software engineering in the era of large language models. *ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology*, 34(3):1–30, 2025.

[223] Wenxuan Zhang, Yue Deng, Bing Liu, Sinno Jialin Pan, and Lidong Bing. Sentiment analysis in the era of large language models: A reality check. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.15005*, 2023.

[224] Y Zhang, M Wang, Y Wu, Li Q Tiwari Prayag, B Wang, and J Qin. Dialoguellm: context and emotion knowledge-tuned large language models for emotion recognition in conversations. arxiv. org, 2023.

[225] Y Zhang, C Zou, Z Lian, P Tiwari, and J Qin. Sarcasmbench: Towards evaluating large language models on sarcasm understanding (no. arxiv: 2408.11319). arxiv, 2024.

[226] Yazhou Zhang, Mengyao Wang, Qiuchi Li, Prayag Tiwari, and Jing Qin. Pushing the limit of llm capacity for text classification. In *Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025*, pages 1524–1528, 2025.

[227] Yazhou Zhang, Chunwang Zou, Qimeng Liu, Lu Rong, Ben Yao, Zheng Lian, Qiuchi Li, Peng Zhang, and Jing Qin. Are mlms trapped in the visual room? *arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.23272*, 2025.

[228] Yazhou Zhang, Chunwang Zou, Bo Wang, and Jing Qin. Commander-gpt: Fully unleashing the sarcasm detection capability of multi-modal large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.18681*, 2025.

[229] Yiqun Zhang, Xiaocui Yang, Xingle Xu, Zeran Gao, Yijie Huang, Shiyi Mu, Shi Feng, Daling Wang, Yifei Zhang, Kaisong Song, et al. Affective computing in the era of large language models: A survey from the nlp perspective. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.04638*, 2024.

[230] Zhao Zhang, Yiming Li, Jin Zhang, and Hui Xu. Llm-driven knowledge injection advances zero-shot and cross-target stance detection. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 371–378, 2024.

[231] Zixing Zhang, Liyizhe Peng, Tao Pang, Jing Han, Huan Zhao, and Björn W Schuller. Refashioning emotion recognition modeling: the advent of generalized large models. *IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems*, 11(5):6690–6704, 2024.

[232] Chenye Zhao and Cornelia Caragea. Ez-stance: A large dataset for english zero-shot stance detection. In *Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 15697–15714, 2024.

[233] Chenye Zhao, Yingjie Li, Cornelia Caragea, and Yue Zhang. Zerostance: Leveraging chatgpt for open-domain stance detection via dataset generation. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics ACL 2024*, pages 13390–13405, 2024.
