[186] Peng Wang, Yongheng Zhang, Hao Fei, Qiguang Chen, Yukai Wang, Jiasheng Si, Wenpeng Lu, Min Li, and Libo Qin. S3 agent: unlocking the power of vllm for zero-shot multi-modal sarcasm detection. *ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications and Applications*, 2024.

[187] Xiaolong Wang, Yile Wang, Sijie Cheng, Peng Li, and Yang Liu. Deem: Dynamic experienced expert modeling for stance detection. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.15264*, 2024.

[188] Xuena Wang, Xueting Li, Zi Yin, Yue Wu, and Jia Liu. Emotional intelligence of large language models. *Journal of Pacific Rim Psychology*, 17:18344909231213958, 2023.

[189] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou, et al. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. *Advances in neural information processing systems*, 35:24824–24837, 2022.

[190] Anuradha Welivita and Pearl Pu. Are large language models more empathetic than humans? *arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.05063*, 2024.

[191] Chengyan Wu, Bolei Ma, Zheyu Zhang, Ningyuan Deng, Yanqing He, and Yun Xue. Evaluating zero-shot multilingual aspect-based sentiment analysis with large language models. *International Journal of Machine Learning and Cybernetics*, June 2025.

[192] Lifang Wu, Lehao Xing, Ge Shi, Sinuo Deng, and Jie Yang. Sect: Sentiment-enriched continual training for image sentiment analysis. In *International Conference on Image and Graphics*, pages 93–105. Springer, 2023.

[193] Shih-Hung Wu, Yu-Feng Huang, and Tsz-Yeung Lau. Humour classification by fine-tuning llms: Cyt at clef 2024 joker lab subtask humour classification according to genre and technique. In *Working Notes of the Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum (CLEF 2024). CEUR Workshop Proceedings*, pages 1933–1947, 2024.

[194] Zihui Wu, Haichang Gao, Jiacheng Luo, and Zhaoxiang Liu. Humorreject: Decoupling llm safety from refusal prefix via a little humor. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.13677*, 2025.

[195] Mengyu Xiang, Yuxuan Song, Qiudan Li, Shu Wu, and Daniel Dajun Zeng. Dynamic detection of sarcasm topic-target pairs via llm-based knowledge alignment. In *Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025*, pages 1422–1425, 2025.

[196] Hongxia Xie, Chu-Jun Peng, Yu-Wen Tseng, Hung-Jen Chen, Chan-Feng Hsu, Hong-Han Shuai, and Wen-Huang Cheng. Emovit: Revolutionizing emotion insights with visual instruction tuning. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*, pages 26596–26605, 2024.

[197] Bohao Xing, Xin Liu, Guoying Zhao, Chengyu Liu, Xiaolan Fu, and Heikki Kälviäinen. Emotionhallucer: Evaluating emotion hallucinations in multimodal large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.11405*, 2025.

[198] Bohao Xing, Zitong Yu, Xin Liu, Kaishen Yuan, Qilang Ye, Weicheng Xie, Huanjing Yue, Jingyu Yang, and Heikki Kälviäinen. Emo-llama: Enhancing facial emotion understanding with instruction tuning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.11424*, 2024.

[199] Yaoxun Xu, Hangting Chen, Jianwei Yu, Qiaochu Huang, Zhiyong Wu, Shi-Xiong Zhang, Guangzhi Li, Yi Luo, and Rongzhi Gu. Secap: Speech emotion captioning with large language model. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, volume 38, pages 19323–19331, 2024.

[200] Hiromu Yakura. Evaluating large language models’ ability using a psychiatric screening tool based on metaphor and sarcasm scenarios. *Journal of Intelligence*, 12(7):70, 2024.

[201] Ming Yan, Tianyi Zhou Joey, and W Tsang Ivor. Collaborative knowledge infusion for low-resource stance detection. *Big Data Mining and Analytics*, 7(3):682–698, 2024.

[202] Yu Yan, Sheng Sun, Zixiang Tang, Teli Liu, and Min Liu. Collaborative stance detection via small-large language model consistency verification. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.19954*, 2025.
