[43] Daijun Ding, Xianghua Fu, Xiaojiang Peng, Xiaomao Fan, Hu Huang, and Bowen Zhang. Leveraging chain-of-thought to enhance stance detection with prompt-tuning. *Mathematics*, 12(4):568, 2024.

[44] Hongcheng Ding, Xuanze Zhao, Ruiting Deng, Shamsul Nahar Abdullah, Deshinta Arrova Dewi, and Zixiao Jiang. Dynamic adaptive optimization for effective sentiment analysis fine-tuning on large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.11856*, 2024.

[45] Xuanwen Ding, Jie Zhou, Liang Dou, Qin Chen, Yuanbin Wu, Chengcai Chen, and Liang He. Boosting large language models with continual learning for aspect-based sentiment analysis. *CoRR*, abs/2405.05496, 2024.

[46] PV DiStefano, JD Patterson, and R Beaty. Automatic scoring of metaphor creativity with large language models. psyarxiv, 2023.

[47] Zhongren Dong, Donghao Wang, Ciqiang Chen, Dong-Yan Huang, and Zixing Zhang. Mhsdb: A comprehensive benchmark for multimodal humor and sarcasm detection leveraging foundation models. In *ICASSP 2025-2025 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP)*, pages 1–5. IEEE, 2025.

[48] Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, et al. The llama 3 herd of models. *arXiv e-prints*, pages arXiv–2407, 2024.

[49] Jeffrey L Elman. Finding structure in time. *Cognitive science*, 14(2):179–211, 1990.

[50] Pierre Epron, Gaël Guibon, and Miguel Couceiro. Orpailleur & synalp at clef 2024 task 2: Good old cross validation for large language models yields the best humourous detection. In *Working Notes of the Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum (CLEF 2024)*, volume 3740, pages 1841–1856. CEUR-WS. org, 2024.

[51] Qinlong Fan, Jicang Lu, Yepeng Sun, Qiankun Pi, and Shouxin Shang. Enhancing zero-shot stance detection via multi-task fine-tuning with debate data and knowledge augmentation. *Complex & Intelligent Systems*, 11(2):151, 2025.

[52] Shutong Feng, Nurul Lubis, Christian Geishauser, Hsien-chin Lin, Michael Heck, Carel van Niekerk, and Milica Gašić. Emowoz: A large-scale corpus and labelling scheme for emotion recognition in task-oriented dialogue systems. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.04919*, 2021.

[53] Margherita Gambini, Caterina Senette, Tiziano Fagni, and Maurizio Tesconi. Evaluating large language models for user stance detection on x (twitter). *Machine Learning*, 113(10):7243–7266, 2024.

[54] Himanshu Gautam, Abhishek Gaur, and Dharmendra Kumar Yadav. A survey on the impact of pre-trained language models in sentiment classification task. *International Journal of Data Science and Analytics*, pages 1–39, 2025.

[55] Kyle Glandt, Sarthak Khanal, Yingjie Li, Doina Caragea, and Cornelia Caragea. Stance detection in covid-19 tweets. In *Proceedings of the 59th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics and the 11th international joint conference on natural language processing (long papers)*, volume 1, 2021.

[56] M Gole, WP Nwadiugwu, and A Miranskyy. On sarcasm detection with openai gpt-based models. 2023. *URL: https://doi. org/10.48550/arXiv*, 2312.

[57] Montgomery Gole, Williams-Paul Nwadiugwu, and Andriy Miranskyy. On sarcasm detection with openai gpt-based models. In *2024 34th International Conference on Collaborative Advances in Software and COmputiNg (CASCON)*, pages 1–6. IEEE, 2024.

[58] Gamze Goren and Carlo Strapparava. Context matters: Enhancing metaphor recognition in proverbs. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024)*, pages 3825–3830, 2024.
