[234] Haochen Zhao, Yongxiu Xu, Xinkui Lin, Jiarui Lu, Hongbo Xu, and Yubin Wang. Eilmob: Emotion-aware incongruity learning and modality bridging network for multi-modal sarcasm detection. In *Proceedings of the 2025 International Conference on Multimedia Retrieval*, pages 1868–1876, 2025.

[235] Jiaxing Zhao, Xihan Wei, and Liefeng Bo. R1-omni: Explainable omni-multimodal emotion recognition with reinforcement learning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.05379*, 2025.

[236] Li Zheng, Sihang Wang, Hao Fei, Zuquan Peng, Fei Li, Jianming Fu, Chong Teng, and Donghong Ji. Enhancing hyperbole and metaphor detection with their bidirectional dynamic interaction and emotion knowledge. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.15504*, 2025.

[237] Hengyang Zhou, Jinwu Yan, Yaqing Chen, Rongman Hong, Wenbo Zuo, and Keyan Jin. Ldgnet: Llms debate-guided network for multimodal sarcasm detection. In *ICASSP 2025-2025 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP)*, pages 1–5. IEEE, 2025.

[238] Juliann Zhou. An evaluation of state-of-the-art large language models for sarcasm detection. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.03706*, 2023.

[239] Runlong Zhou and Yi Zhang. Cascade your datasets for cross-mode knowledge retrieval of language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.01450*, 2025.

[240] Zhengyuan Zhu, Zeyu Zhang, Haiqi Zhang, and Chengkai Li. Ratsd: Retrieval augmented truthfulness stance detection from social media posts toward factual claims. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2025*, pages 3366–3381, 2025.

[241] Yong Zhuang, Feilong Wang, Dickson K. W. Chiu, and Kevin K. W. Ho. Leveraging large language models to examine the interaction between investor sentiment and stock performance. *Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell.*, 150:110602, 2025.
