[28] Yuyan Chen, Hao Wang, Songzhou Yan, Sijia Liu, Yueze Li, Yi Zhao, and Yanghua Xiao. Emotionqueen: A benchmark for evaluating empathy of large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.13359*, 2024.

[29] Yuyan Chen and Yanghua Xiao. Recent advancement of emotion cognition in large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.13354*, 2024.

[30] Yuyan Chen, Yichen Yuan, Panjun Liu, Dayiheng Liu, Qinghao Guan, Mengfei Guo, Haiming Peng, Bang Liu, Zhixu Li, and Yanghua Xiao. Talk funny! a large-scale humor response dataset with chain-of-humor interpretation. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, volume 38, pages 17826–17834, 2024.

[31] Zebang Cheng, Zhi-Qi Cheng, Jun-Yan He, Kai Wang, Yuxiang Lin, Zheng Lian, Xiaojiang Peng, and Alexander Hauptmann. Emotion-llama: Multimodal emotion recognition and reasoning with instruction tuning. *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, 37:110805–110853, 2024.

[32] Wei-Lin Chiang, Zhuohan Li, Ziqing Lin, Ying Sheng, Zhanghao Wu, Hao Zhang, Lianmin Zheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Yonghao Zhuang, Joseph E Gonzalez, et al. Vicuna: An open-source chatbot impressing gpt-4 with 90%* chatgpt quality. *See https://vicuna. lmsys. org (accessed 14 April 2023)*, 2(3):6, 2023.

[33] I-Chan Chiu and Mao-Wei Hung. Finance-specific large language models: Advancing sentiment analysis and return prediction with llama 2. *Pacific-Basin Finance Journal*, 90:102632, 2025.

[34] Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian Gehrmann, et al. Palm: Scaling language modeling with pathways. *Journal of Machine Learning Research*, 24(240):1–113, 2023.

[35] Genan Dai, Jiayu Liao, Sicheng Zhao, Xianghua Fu, Xiaojiang Peng, Hu Huang, and Bowen Zhang. Large language model enhanced logic tensor network for stance detection. *Neural Networks*, 183:106956, 2025.

[36] Dorottya Demszky, Dana Movshovitz-Attias, Jeongwoo Ko, Alan Cowen, Gaurav Nemade, and Sujith Ravi. Goemotions: A dataset of fine-grained emotions. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.00547*, 2020.

[37] Shiling Deng, Serge Belongie, and Peter Ebert Christensen. Large vision-language models for knowledge-grounded data annotation of memes. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.13851*, 2025.

[38] Xiang Deng, Vasilisa Bashlovkina, Feng Han, Simon Baumgartner, and Michael Bendersky. Llms to the moon? reddit market sentiment analysis with large language models. In *Companion Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023*, pages 1014–1019, 2023.

[39] Tim Dettmers, Artidoro Pagnoni, Ari Holtzman, and Luke Zettlemoyer. Qlora: Efficient finetuning of quantized llms. *Advances in neural information processing systems*, 36:10088–10115, 2023.

[40] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In *Proceedings of the 2019 conference of the North American chapter of the association for computational linguistics: human language technologies, volume 1 (long and short papers)*, pages 4171–4186, 2019.

[41] Daijun Ding, Rong Chen, Liwen Jing, Bowen Zhang, Xu Huang, Li Dong, Xiaowen Zhao, and Ge Song. Cross-target stance detection by exploiting target analytical perspectives. In *ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP)*, pages 10651–10655. IEEE, 2024.

[42] Daijun Ding, Genan Dai, Cheng Peng, Xiaojiang Peng, Bowen Zhang, and Hu Huang. Distantly supervised explainable stance detection via chain-of-thought supervision. *Mathematics*, 12(7):1119, 2024.
