## 5 Experiments

In the experiments of this paper, our goal is to establish a performance baseline for the UR-FUNNY dataset. Furthermore, we aim to understand the role of context and punchline, as well as role of individual modalities in the task of humor detection. For all the experiments, we use the proposed contextual extension of Memory Fusion Network (MFN), called C-MFN (Section 4.2). Aside the proposed C-MFN model, the following variants are also studied:

**C-MFN (P):** This variant of the C-MFN uses only punchline with no contextual information. Essentially, this is equivalent to a MFN model since initialization trick is not used.

**C-MFN (C):** This variant of the C-MFN uses only contextual information without punchline. Essentially, this is equivalent to removing the MFN and directly conditioning the humor prediction on the Unimodal and Multimodal Context Network outputs (Sigmoid activated neuron after applying $D_M; m \in M$ on $H$ and $D$ on $\hat{H}$).

The above variants of the C-MFN allow for studying the importance of punchline and context in modeling humor. Furthermore, we compare the performance of the C-MFN variants in the following scenarios: **(T)** a only text modality is used without visual and acoustic, **(T+V)** text and visual modalities are used without acoustic, **(T+A)** text and acoustic modalities are used without visual, **(A+V)** only visual and acoustic modalities are used, **(T+A+V)** all modalities are used together.

We compare the performance of C-MFN variants across the above scenarios. This allows for understanding the role of context and punchline in humor detection, as well as the importance of different modalities. All the models for our experiments are trained using categorical cross-entropy. This measure is calculated between the output of the model and ground-truth labels. We also compare the performance of C-MFN to a Random Forest classifier as another strong non-neural baseline. We use the summary features of punchline and context for the Random Forest classifier.

| Modality | T | A+V | T+A | T+V | T+A+V |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| C-MFN (P) | 62.85 | 53.3 | 63.28 | 63.22 | 64.47 |
| C-MFN (C) | 57.96 | 50.23 | 57.78 | 57.99 | 58.45 |
| C-MFN | 64.44 | 57.99 | 64.47 | 64.22 | 65.23 |

Table 4: Binary accuracy for different variants of C-MFN and training scenarios outlined in Section 5. The best performance is achieved using all three modalities of text (T), visual (V) and acoustic (A).

## 6 Results and Discussion

The results of our experiments are presented in Table 4. Results demonstrate that both context and punchline information are important as C-MFN outperforms C-MFN (P) and C-MFN (C) models. Punchline is the most important component for detecting humor as the performance of C-MFN (P) is significantly higher than C-MFN (C).

Models that use all modalities (T+A+V) outperform models that use only one or two modalities (T, T+A, T+V, A+V). Between text (T) and nonverbal behaviors (A+V), text shows to be the most important modality. Most of the cases, both modalities of visual and acoustic improve the performance of text alone (T+V, T+A).

Based on the above observations, each neural component of the C-MFN model is useful in improving the prediction of humor. The results also indicate that modeling humor from a multimodal perspective yields successful results. Furthermore, both context and punchline are important in understanding humor.

The highest accuracy achieved by Random Forest baseline (after hyper parameter tuning & using same folds as C-MFN) was 57.78%, which is higher than random baseline but lower than C-MFN (65.23%). In addition, C-MFN achieves higher accuracy than similar notable unimodal previous work (58.9%) where only punchline and textual information were used (Chen and Lee, 2017) . The human performance $^5$ on the UR-FUNNY dataset is 82.5%.

The results from Table 4 demonstrate that while a state-of-the-art model can achieve a reasonable level of success in modeling humor, there is still a large gap between human-level performance with state of the art. Therefore, UR-FUNNY

[^5]: This is calculated by averaging the performance of two annotators over a shuffled set of 100 humor and 100 non-humor cases. The annotators are given the same input as the machine learning models (similar context and punchline). The annotators agree 84% of times.
