[Figure: Structure diagram of Unimodal Context Network. Visible labels include $n=1$, $n=2$, $n=N_C$, $H$, $h_{t,2}$, $h_{v,2}$, $h_{a,2}$, $C_{t,2,k_{C2}}$, $C_{v,2,k_{C2}}$, $C_{a,2,k_{C2}}$, $C_{t,2,2}$, $C_{v,2,2}$, $C_{a,2,2}$, $C_{t,2,1}$, $C_{v,2,1}$, $C_{a,2,1}$, $\mathrm{LSTM}_t$, $\mathrm{LSTM}_v$, $\mathrm{LSTM}_a$, and “Context $n=2$”.]

Figure 3: The structure of Unimodal Context Network as outlined in Section 4.2.1. For demonstration purpose, we show the case for $n=2$ (second context sentence). After $n=N_C$, the output $H$ (outlined by blue) is complete. Best viewed in color.

## 4.1 Problem Formulation

UR-FUNNY dataset is a multimodal dataset with three modalities of text, visual and acoustic. We denote the set of these modalities as $M=\{t,v,a\}$. Each of the modalities come in a sequential form. We assume word-level alignment between modalities (Yuan and Liberman, 2008). Since frequency of the text modality is less than visual and acoustic (i.e. visual and acoustic have higher sampling rate), we use expected visual and acoustic descriptors for each word (Chen et al., 2017). After this process, each modality has the same sequence length (each word has a single visual and acoustic vector accompanied with it).

Each data sample in the UR-FUNNY can be described as a triplet $(l,P,C)$ with $l$ being a binary label for humor or non-humor, $P$ is the punchline and $C$ is the context. Both punchline and context have multiple modalities $P=\{P_m; m\in M\}$, $C=\{C_m; m\in M\}$. If there are $N_C$ context sentences accompanying the punchline, then $C_m=[C_{m,1}, C_{m,2}, \ldots, C_{m,N_C}]$ - are context sentences start from first sentence to the last $(N_C)$ sentence. $K_P$ is the number of words in the punchline and $K_{C_n}|_{n=1}^{N_C}$ is the number of words in each of the context sentences respectively. Using this notation, $P_{m,k}$ refers to the $k$th entry in the modality $m$ of the punchline. Similarly, $C_{m,n,k}$ refers to the $k$th entry in the modality $m$ of the $n$th context sentence.

Models developed on UR-FUNNY dataset are trained on triplets of $(l,P,C)$. During testing only a tuple $(P,C)$ is given to predict the $l$. Here $l$ is the label for laughter, specifically whether or not the inputs $P,C$ are likely to trigger a laughter.

## 4.2 Contextual Memory Fusion Baseline

Memory Fusion Network (MFN) is among the state-of-the-art models for several multimodal datasets (Zadeh et al., 2018a). We devise an extension of the MFN model, named Contextual Memory Fusion Network(C-MFN), as a baseline for humor detection on UR-FUNNY dataset. This is done by introducing two components to allow the involvement of context in the MFN model: 1) *Unimodal Context Network*, where information from each modality is encoded using $M$ Long-short Term Memories (LSTM), 2) *Multimodal Context Network*, where unimodal context information are fused (using self-attention) to extract the multimodal context information. We discuss the components of the C-MFN model in the following such sections.

### 4.2.1 Unimodal Context Network

To model the context, we first model each modality within the context. Unimodal Context Network (Figure 3) consists of $M$ LSTMs, one for each modality $m \in M$ denoted as $\mathrm{LSTM}_m$. For each context sentence $n$ of each modality $m \in M$, $\mathrm{LSTM}_m$ is used to encode the information into a single vector $h_{m,n}$. This single vector is the last output of the $\mathrm{LSTM}_m$ over $C_{m,n}$ as input. The recurrence step for each LSTM is the utterance of each word (due to word-level alignment visual and acoustic modalities also follow this time-step). The output of the Unimodal Context Network is the set $H=\{h_{m,n}; m \in M, 1 \le n < N_C\}$.

### 4.2.2 Multimodal Context Network

Multimodal Context Network (Figure 4) learns a multimodal representation of the context based on the output $H$ of the Unimodal Context Network. Sentences and modalities in the context can form complex asynchronous spatio-temporal relations. For example, during the gradual buildup of the
