Melissa B Wanzer, Ann B Frymier, and Jeffrey Irwin. 2010. An explanation of the relationship between instructor humor and student learning: Instructional humor processing theory. *Communication Education*, 59(1):1–18.

Martin Wöllmer, Felix Weninger, Tobias Knaup, Björn Schuller, Congkai Sun, Kenji Sagae, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2013. Youtube movie reviews: Sentiment analysis in an audio-visual context. *IEEE Intelligent Systems*, 28(3):46–53.

Diyi Yang, Alon Lavie, Chris Dyer, and Eduard Hovy. 2015. Humor recognition and humor anchor extraction. In *Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 2367–2376.

Jiahong Yuan and Mark Liberman. 2008. Speaker identification on the scotus corpus. *Journal of the Acoustical Society of America*, 123(5):3878.

Amir Zadeh, Minghai Chen, Soujanya Poria, Erik Cambria, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2017. Tensor fusion network for multimodal sentiment analysis. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.07250*.

Amir Zadeh, Paul Pu Liang, Navonil Mazumder, Soujanya Poria, Erik Cambria, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2018a. Memory fusion network for multi-view sequential learning. In *Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*.

Amir Zadeh, Paul Pu Liang, Louis-Philippe Morency, Soujanya Poria, Erik Cambria, and Stefan Scherer. 2018b. Proceedings of grand challenge and workshop on human multimodal language (challenge-hml). In *Proceedings of Grand Challenge and Workshop on Human Multimodal Language (Challenge-HML)*.

Amir Zadeh, Rowan Zellers, Eli Pincus, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2016. Mosi: multimodal corpus of sentiment intensity and subjectivity analysis in online opinion videos. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.06259*.

AmirAli Bagher Zadeh, Paul Pu Liang, Soujanya Poria, Erik Cambria, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2018c. Multimodal language analysis in the wild: Cmu-mosei dataset and interpretable dynamic fusion graph. In *Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, volume 1, pages 2236–2246.
