(Bertero et al., 2016)).

**Multimodal Language Analysis:** Studying natural language from modalities of text, visual and acoustic is a recent research trend in natural language processing (Zadeh et al., 2018b). Notable works in this area present novel multimodal neural architectures (Wang et al., 2019; Pham et al., 2019; Hazarika et al., 2018; Poria et al., 2017; Zadeh et al., 2017), multimodal fusion approaches (Liang et al., 2018; Tsai et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2018; Zadeh et al., 2018a; Barezi et al., 2018) as well as resources (Poria et al., 2018a; Zadeh et al., 2018c, 2016; Park et al., 2014; Rosas et al., 2013; Wöllmer et al., 2013). Multimodal language datasets mostly target multimodal sentiment analysis (Poria et al., 2018b), emotion recognition (Zadeh et al., 2018c; Busso et al., 2008), and personality traits recognition (Park et al., 2014). UR-FUNNY dataset is similar to the above datasets in diversity (speakers and topics) and size, with the main task of humor detection. Beyond the scope of multimodal language analysis, the dataset and studies in this paper have similarities to other applications in multimodal machine learning such language and vision studies, robotics, image captioning, and media description (Baltrušaitis et al., 2019).

## 3 UR-FUNNY Dataset

In this section we present the UR-FUNNY dataset[^1]. We first discuss the data acquisition process, and subsequently present statistics of the dataset as well as multimodal feature extraction and validation.

### 3.1 Data Acquisition

A suitable dataset for the task of multimodal humor detection should be diverse in a) *speakers*: modeling the idiosyncratic expressions of humor may require a dataset with large number of speakers, and b) *topics*: different topics exhibit different styles of humor as the context and punchline can be entirely different from one topic to another.

TED talks[^2] are among the most diverse idea sharing channels, in both speakers and topics. Speakers from various backgrounds, ethnic groups and cultures present their thoughts through a widely popular channel[^3]. The topics of these presentations are diverse; from scientific discoveries to everyday ordinary events. As a result of diversity in speakers and topics, TED talks span across a broad spectrum of humor. Therefore, this platform presents a unique resource for studying the dynamics of humor in a multimodal setup.

TED videos include manual transcripts and audience markers. Transcriptions are highly reliable, which in turn allow for aligning the text and audio. This property makes TED talks a unique resource for newest continuous fusion trends (Chen et al., 2017). Transcriptions also include reliably annotated markers for audience behavior. Specifically, the “laughter” marker has been used in NLP studies as an indicator of humor (Chen and Lee, 2017). Previous studies have identified the importance of both punchline and context in understanding and modeling the humor. In a humorous scenario, context is the gradual build up of a story and punchline is a sudden twist to the story which causes laughter (Ramachandran, 1998). Using the provided laughter marker, the sentence immediately before the marker is considered as the punchline and the sentences prior to punchline (but after previous laughter marker) are considered context.

We collect 1866 videos as well as their transcripts in English from TED portal. These 1866 videos are chosen from 1741 different speakers and across 417 topics. The laughter markup is used to filter out 8257 humorous punchlines from the transcripts (Chen and Lee, 2017). The context is extracted from the prior sentences to the punchline (until the previous humor instances or the beginning of video is reached). Using a similar approach, 8257 negative samples are chosen at random intervals where the last sentence is not immediately followed by a laughter marker. The last sentence is assumed a punchline and similar to the positive instances, the context is chosen. This negative sampling uses sentences from the same distribution, as opposed to datasets which use sentences from other distributions or domains as negative sample (Yang et al., 2015; Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005). After this negative sampling, there is a homogeneous 50% split in the dataset between positive and negative examples.

Using forced alignment, we mark the beginning and end of each sentence in the video as well as

[^1]: UR-FUNNY Dataset: https://github.com/ROC-HCI/UR-FUNNY

[^2]: Videos on www.ted.com are publicly available for download.

[^3]: More than 12 million subscribers on YouTube https://www.youtube.com/user/TEDtalksDirector
