Randy Garner. 2005. Humor, analogy, and metaphor: Ham it up in teaching. *Radical Pedagogy*, 6(2):1.

William E Hauck and John W Thomas. 1972. The relationship of humor to intelligence, creativity, and intentional and incidental learning. *The journal of experimental education*, 40(4):52–55.

Devamanyu Hazarika, Soujanya Poria, Amir Zadeh, Erik Cambria, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Roger Zimmermann. 2018. Conversational memory network for emotion recognition in dyadic dialogue videos. In *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers)*, volume 1, pages 2122–2132.

John Kane and Christer Gobl. 2013. Wavelet maxima dispersion for breathy to tense voice discrimination. *IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing*, 21(6):1170–1179.

Paul Pu Liang, Ziyin Liu, Amir Zadeh, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2018. Multimodal language analysis with recurrent multistage fusion. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.03920*.

Zhun Liu, Ying Shen, Varun Bharadhwaj Lakshminarasimhan, Paul Pu Liang, Amir Zadeh, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2018. Efficient low-rank multi-modal fusion with modality-specific factors. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.00064*.

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. Making computers laugh: Investigations in automatic humor recognition. In *Proceedings of the Conference on Human Language Technology and Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 531–538. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Luke de Oliveira, ICME Stanford, and Alfredo Láinez Rodrigo. 2017. Humor detection in yelp reviews.

Sunghyun Park, Han Suk Shim, Moitreya Chatterjee, Kenji Sagae, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2014. Computational analysis of persuasiveness in social multimedia: A novel dataset and multimodal prediction approach. In *Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Multimodal Interaction*, pages 50–57. ACM.

Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher Manning. 2014. Glove: Global vectors for word representation. In *Proceedings of the 2014 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (EMNLP)*, pages 1532–1543.

Hai Pham, Paul Pu Liang, Thomas Manzini, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Barnabas Poczos. 2019. Found in translation: Learning robust joint representations by cyclic translations between modalities. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.07809*.

Soujanya Poria, Erik Cambria, Devamanyu Hazarika, Navonil Mazumder, Amir Zadeh, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2017. Multi-level multiple attentions for contextual multimodal sentiment analysis. In *2017 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM)*, pages 1033–1038. IEEE.

Soujanya Poria, Devamanyu Hazarika, Navonil Majumder, Gautam Naik, Erik Cambria, and Rada Mihalcea. 2018a. Meld: A multimodal multi-party dataset for emotion recognition in conversations. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.02508*.

Soujanya Poria, Amir Hussain, and Erik Cambria. 2018b. *Multimodal Sentiment Analysis*, volume 8. Springer.

Robert R Provine. 1992. Contagious laughter: Laughter is a sufficient stimulus for laughs and smiles. *Bulletin of the Psychonomic Society*, 30(1):1–4.

Rachel Rakov and Andrew Rosenberg. 2013. ” sure, i did the right thing”: a system for sarcasm detection in speech. In *Interspeech*, pages 842–846.

Vilayanur S Ramachandran. 1998. The neurology and evolution of humor, laughter, and smiling: the false alarm theory. *Medical hypotheses*, 51(4):351–354.

Verónica Pérez Rosas, Rada Mihalcea, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2013. Multimodal sentiment analysis of spanish online videos. *IEEE Intelligent Systems*, 28(3):38–45.

Dafna Shahaf, Eric Horvitz, and Robert Mankoff. 2015. Inside jokes: Identifying humorous cartoon captions. In *Proceedings of the 21th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining*, pages 1065–1074. ACM.

David Stauffer. 1999. Let the good times roll: Building a fun culture. *Harvard Management Update*, 4(10):4–6.

Yao-Hung Hubert Tsai, Paul Pu Liang, Amir Zadeh, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. 2018. Learning factorized multimodal representations. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.06176*.

Robert A Vartabedian and Laurel Klinger Vartabedian. 1993. Humor in the workplace: A communication challenge.

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you need. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, pages 5998–6008.

Yansen Wang, Ying Shen, Zhun Liu, Paul Pu Liang, Amir Zadeh, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2019. Words can shift: Dynamically adjusting word representations using nonverbal behaviors. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.09362*.
