pected punchline (Ramachandran, 1998), creating a discrepancy between modalities (e.g., something funny being said without any emotion), or just laughing with the speech to stimulate the audience to mirror the laughter (Provine, 1992).

Modeling humor using a computational framework is inherently challenging due to factors such as: 1) *Idiosyncrasy:* often humorous people are also the most creative ones (Hauck and Thomas, 1972). This creativity in turn adds to the dynamic complexity of how humor is expressed in a multimodal manner. Use of words, gestures, prosodic cues and their (mis)alignments are choices that a creative user often experiments with. 2) *Contextual Dependencies:* humor often develops through time as speakers plan for a punchline in advance. There is a gradual build up in the story with a sudden twist using a punchline (Ramachandran, 1998). Some punchlines when viewed in isolation (as illustrated in Figure 1) may not appear funny. The humor stems from the prior build up, cross-referencing multiple sources, and its delivery. Therefore, a full understanding of humor requires analyzing the context of the punchline.

Understanding the unique dependencies across modalities and its impact on humor require knowledge from multimodal language; a recent research trend in the field of natural language processing (Zadeh et al., 2018b). Studies in this area aim to explain natural language from three modalities of text, visual and acoustic. In this paper, alongside computational descriptors for text, gestures such as smile or vocal properties such as loudness are measured and put together in a multimodal framework to define humor recognition as a multimodal task.

The main contribution of this paper to the NLP community is introducing the first multimodal language (including text, visual and acoustic modalities) dataset of humor detection named “UR-FUNNY”. This dataset opens the door to understanding and modeling humor in a multimodal framework. The studies in this paper present performance baselines for this task and demonstrate the impact of using all three modalities together for humor modeling.

## 2 Background

The dataset and experiments in this paper are connected to the following areas:

**Humor Analysis:** Humor analysis has been

| Dataset | #Pos | #Neg | Mod | type | #spk |
|---|---:|---:|---|---|---:|
| 16000 One-Liners | 16000 | 16000 | {t} | joke | - |
| Pun of the Day | 2423 | 2423 | {t} | pun | - |
| PTT Jokes | 1425 | 2551 | {t} | political | - |
| Ted Laughter | 4726 | 4726 | {t} | speech | 1192 |
| Big Bang Theory | 18691 | 24981 | {t,a} | tv show | <50 |
| **UR-FUNNY** | 8257 | 8257 | {t,a,v} | speech | 1741 |

Table 1: Comparison between UR-FUNNY and notable humor detection datasets in the NLP community. Here, ‘#’, ‘pos’, ‘neg’, ‘mod’ and ‘spk’ denote number, positive, negative, modalities and speaker respectively.

among active areas of research in both natural language processing and affective computing. Notable datasets in this area include “16000 One-Liners” (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005), “Pun of the Day” (Yang et al., 2015), “PTT Jokes” (Chen and Soo, 2018), “Ted Laughter” (Chen and Lee, 2017), and “Big Bang Theory” (Bertero et al., 2016). The above datasets have studied humor from different perspectives. For example, “16000 One-Liner” and “Pun of the Day” focus on joke detection (binary task), while “Ted Laughter” focuses on punchline detection (whether or not punchline triggers laughter). Similar to “Ted Laughter”, UR-FUNNY focuses on punchline detection. Furthermore, punchline is accompanied by context sentences to properly model the build up of humor. Unlike previous datasets where negative samples were drawn from a different domain, UR-FUNNY uses a challenging negative sampling case where samples are drawn from the same videos. Furthermore, UR-FUNNY is the only humor detection dataset which incorporates all three modalities of text, visual and acoustic. Table 1 shows a comparison between previously proposed datasets and UR-FUNNY dataset.

From modeling aspect, humor detection is done using hand-crafted and non-neural models (Yang et al., 2015), neural based RNN and CNN models on Yelp (de Oliveira et al., 2017) and TED talks data (Chen and Lee, 2017). Newer approaches have used (Chen and Soo, 2018) highway networks on “16000 One-Liner” and “Pun of the Day” datasets. There have been very few attempts at using extra modalities alongside language for detecting humor, mostly limited to adding simple audio features (Rakov and Rosenberg, 2013; Bertero et al., 2016) or the description of cartoon images (Shahaf et al., 2015). Furthermore, these attempts have been restricted to certain topics and domains (such as “Big Bang Theory” TV show
