|  | Train | Val | Test |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| #humor instances | 5306 | 1313 | 1638 |
| #not humor instances | 5292 | 1313 | 1652 |
| #videos used | 1166 | 300 | 400 |
| #speakers | 1059 | 294 | 388 |
| avg #words in punchline | 15.81 | 16.94 | 16.55 |
| avg #words in context | 41.69 | 42.86 | 43.94 |
| avg #sentences in context | 2.84 | 2.81 | 2.95 |
| punchline avg duration(second) | 4.85 | 5.25 | 5.15 |
| context avg duration(second) | 14.39 | 14.91 | 15.54 |

Table 3: Statistics of train, validation & test folds of UR-FUNNY dataset. Here, ‘avg’ denotes average and ‘#’ denotes number.

of words. There is no clear distinction between humor and non-humor punchlines as both follow similar distribution. Similarly, Figure 2.b shows the distribution of number of words per context sentence. Both humor and non-humor context sentences follow the same distribution. Majority ($\geq 90\%$) of punchlines have length less than 32. In terms of number of seconds, Figure 2.d shows the distribution of punchline and context sentence length in terms of seconds. Figure 2.c demonstrates the distribution of number of context sentences per humor and non-humor data instances. Number of context sentences per humor and non-humor case is also roughly the same. The statistics in Figure 2 show that there is no trivial or degenerate distinctions between humor and non-humor cases. Therefore, classification of humor versus non-humor cases cannot be done based on simple measures (such as number of words); it requires understanding the content of sentences.

Table 3 shows the standard train, validation and test folds of the UR-FUNNY dataset. These folds share no speaker with each other - hence standard folds are speaker independent (Zadeh et al., 2016). This minimizes the chance of overfitting to identity of the speakers or their communication patterns.

### 3.3 Extracted Features

For each modality, the extracted features are as follows:

**Language (text):** Glove word embeddings (Pennington et al., 2014) are used as pre-trained word vectors for the text features. P2FA forced alignment model (Yuan and Liberman, 2008) is used to align the text and audio on phoneme level. From the force alignment, we extract the timing annotations of context and punchline on word level. Then, the acoustic and visual cues are aligned on word level by interpolation (Chen et al., 2017).

**Acoustic:** COVAREP software (Degottex et al., 2014) is used to extraction acoustic features at the rate of 30 frame/sec. We extract following 81 features: fundamental frequency (F0), Voiced/Unvoiced segmenting features (VUV) (Drugman and Alwan, 2011), normalized amplitude quotient (NAQ), quasi open quotient (QOQ) (Kane and Gobl, 2013), glottal source parameters (H1H2, Rd,Rd conf) (Drugman et al., 2012; Alku et al., 2002, 1997), parabolic spectral parameter (PSP), maxima dispersion quotient (MDQ), spectral tilt/slope of wavelet responses (peak/slope), Mel cepstral coefficient (MCEP 0-24), harmonic model and phase distortion mean (HMPDM 0-24) and deviations (HMPDD 0-12), and the first 3 formants. These acoustic features are related to emotions and tone of speech.

**Visual:** OpenFace facial behavioral analysis tool (Baltrušaitis et al., 2016) is used to extract the facial expression features at the rate of 30 frame/sec. We extract all facial Action Units (AU) features based on the Facial Action Coding System (FACS) (Ekman, 1997). Rigid and non-rigid facial shape parameters are also extracted (Baltrušaitis et al., 2016). We observed that the camera angle and position changes frequently during TED presentations. However, for the majority of time, the camera stays focused on the presenter. Due to the volatile camera work, the only consistently available source of visual information was the speaker’s face.

UR-FUNNY dataset is publicly available for download alongside all the extracted features.

## 4 Multimodal Humor Detection

In this section, we first outline the problem formulation for performing binary multimodal humor detection on UR-FUNNY dataset. We then proceed to study the UR-FUNNY dataset through the lens of a contextualized extension of Memory Fusion Network (MFN) (Zadeh et al., 2018a) - a state-of-the-art model in multimodal language.
