dataset presents new challenges to the field of NLP, specifically research areas of humor detection and multimodal language analysis.

## 7 Conclusion

In this paper, we presented a new multimodal dataset for humor detection called UR-FUNNY. This dataset is the first of its kind in the NLP community. Humor detection is done from the perspective of predicting laughter - similar to (Chen and Lee, 2017). UR-FUNNY is diverse in both speakers and topics. It contains three modalities of text, visual and acoustic. We study this dataset through the lens of a Contextualized Memory Fusion Network (C-MFN). Results of our experiments indicate that humor can be better modeled if all three modalities are used together. Furthermore, both context and punchline are important in understanding humor. The dataset and the accompanying experiments are publicly available.

## Acknowledgment

This research was supported in part by grant W911NF-15-1-0542 and W911NF-19-1-0029 with the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and the Army Research Office (ARO).

This material is based upon work partially supported by the National Science Foundation (Awards #1734868 #1722822) and National Institutes of Health. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of National Science Foundation or National Institutes of Health, and no official endorsement should be inferred.

## References

Paavo Alku, Tom Bäckström, and Erkki Vilkman. 2002. Normalized amplitude quotient for parametrization of the glottal flow. *the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America*, 112(2):701–710.

Paavo Alku, Helmer Strik, and Erkki Vilkman. 1997. Parabolic spectral parametera new method for quantification of the glottal flow. *Speech Communication*, 22(1):67–79.

Tadas Baltrušaitis, Chaitanya Ahuja, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2019. Multimodal machine learning: A survey and taxonomy. *IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence*, 41(2):423–443.

Tadas Baltrušaitis, Peter Robinson, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2016. Openface: an open source facial behavior analysis toolkit. In *2016 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV)*, pages 1–10. IEEE.

Elham J Barezi, Peyman Momeni, Pascale Fung, et al. 2018. Modality-based factorization for multimodal fusion. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.12624*.

Dario Bertero, Pascale Fung, X Li, L Wu, Z Liu, B Hussain, Wc Chong, Km Lau, Pc Yue, W Zhang, et al. 2016. Deep learning of audio and language features for humor prediction. In *LREC*.

Carlos Busso, Murtaza Bulut, Chi-Chun Lee, Abe Kazemzadeh, Emily Mower, Samuel Kim, Jeannette N Chang, Sungbok Lee, and Shrikanth S Narayanan. 2008. Iemocap: Interactive emotional dyadic motion capture database. *Language resources and evaluation*, 42(4):335.

Lei Chen and Chong Min Lee. 2017. Predicting audience’s laughter during presentations using convolutional neural network. In *Proceedings of the 12th Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications*, pages 86–90.

Minghai Chen, Sen Wang, Paul Pu Liang, Tadas Baltrušaitis, Amir Zadeh, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2017. Multimodal sentiment analysis with word-level fusion and reinforcement learning. In *Proceedings of the 19th ACM International Conference on Multimodal Interaction*, pages 163–171. ACM.

Peng-Yu Chen and Von-Wun Soo. 2018. Humor recognition using deep learning. In *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers)*, volume 2, pages 113–117.

Gilles Degottex, John Kane, Thomas Drugman, Tuomo Raitio, and Stefan Scherer. 2014. Covarepa collaborative voice analysis repository for speech technologies. In *2014 ieee international conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing (icassp)*, pages 960–964. IEEE.

Thomas Drugman and Abeer Alwan. 2011. Joint robust voicing detection and pitch estimation based on residual harmonics. In *Twelfth Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication Association*.

Thomas Drugman, Mark Thomas, Jon Gudnason, Patrick Naylor, and Thierry Dutoit. 2012. Detection of glottal closure instants from speech signals: A quantitative review. *IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing*, 20(3):994–1006.

Rosenberg Ekman. 1997. *What the face reveals: Basic and applied studies of spontaneous expression using the Facial Action Coding System (FACS)*. Oxford University Press, USA.
