good starting point, it may result in superficial overfitting to the teacher’s style rather than learning the task itself (Gudibande et al., 2023). Fig. 1 demonstrates that even after fine-tuning on the humorous responses from the LLM, the SLM outputs fall flat. Existing techniques that address this gap attempt to improve task understanding through distilling chains of thoughts (Mukherjee et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2023a). This approach is less applicable for creative generation tasks, which can’t be scripted. For instance, it is possible to solve a math reasoning problem systematically, but it is difficult to come up with a recipe for a joke (Hessel et al., 2023; West et al., 2023).

To bridge this gap, and improve upon mimicry of the teacher, we propose a novel distillation framework involving both imitation and feedback. Following the typical imitation stage in which the SLM learns from the LLM’s outputs, we use the LLM as a critic to provide feedback on the student’s outputs, facilitating iterative improvement.

Evaluation of our student models on the proposed task based on EmpatheticDialogues (Rashkin et al., 2019) and Samsum (Gliwa et al., 2019) datasets confirms the advantage of learning from feedback; our student, based on the small BART model, performs on par with LLMs that are orders of magnitude larger, such as Llama2-70B upto 65% of the time, and significantly outperforms supervised fine-tuning by a margin of 18-20% . We assess the strengths and limitations of the critic in evaluating the SLM by comparing it against human judgments. We found that our critics can match human judgments with up to 76% accuracy, but can also suffer from biases due to length, position, or other biases. We explore the effect of data size, frequency of critic intervention, and the effect of potential evaluation biases on narrowing the gap between the SLM and LLM.

Our work on distilling humor is a step towards more natural and engaging conversations (Ritchie et al., 2007), making SLMs more appealing for downstream applications where latency and computational efficiency need to be prioritized.

## 2 Related Work

### 2.1 Computational Humor Generation

Computational humor is an interdisciplinary field at the intersection of NLP and humor theory. Early efforts in computational humor revolved around rule-based systems and linguistically-motivated methods. Raskin (1979) introduced a semantic analysis of humor which laid the foundation for subsequent rule-based approaches to humor recognition (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005; Reyes et al., 2012; Chen and Soo, 2018; Weller and Seppi, 2019). Concerning the more challenging task of humor generation, early approaches were linguistically informed and focused on specific types of humor, *e.g.* puns or jokes (Ritchie, 2005; Petrović and Matthews, 2013).

With the advent of deep learning, the focus shifted towards data-driven and neural approaches. This ranges from using RNNs and GANs to create puns (Yu et al., 2018; Luo et al., 2019), to more recent transformer-based approaches (Garimella et al., 2020) that can complete or generate jokes. These approaches enabled the generation of more contextually relevant and natural humor. Since neural approaches are primarily data-driven, this concurrently led to the creation of large joke datasets (Weller et al., 2020) and benchmarks (Hossain et al., 2020).

Recent research has delved into the generation of figurative language such as sarcasm (Chakrabarty et al., 2022), puns (Mittal et al., 2022), as well as interactive chatbots with humor capabilities (Kulshreshtha et al., 2020). New multi-modal humor benchmarks (Hessel et al., 2023) have been developed to gauge the humor understanding and explanation abilities of LLMs. Weller et al. (2020) proposed the first model for humor style transfer building a transformer model that translates from regular to humorous, and leveraging humor prediction data from news headlines for humor generation.

### 2.2 LLMs as Evaluators

Automatic evaluation of Natural Language Generation (NLG) tasks is typically based on N-gram metrics such as BLEU (Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE (Lin, 2004) and embedding-based metrics such as BERTScore (Zhang et al., 2020) which require gold standard references. Recent research has explored a reference-free approach to assess NLG tasks by leveraging the implicit knowledge and instruction following abilities of LLMs. Fu et al. (2023) proposed GPTScore, which prompts LLMs with instructions and aspect definitions (*e.g.* flu-
