Peifeng Wang, Zhengyang Wang, Zheng Li, Yifan Gao, Bing Yin, and Xiang Ren. 2023a. SCOTT: Self-consistent chain-of-thought distillation. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 5546–5558, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Peiyi Wang, Lei Li, Liang Chen, Dawei Zhu, Binghuai Lin, Yunbo Cao, Qi Liu, Tianyu Liu, and Zhifang Sui. 2023b. Large language models are not fair evaluators. *ArXiv*, abs/2305.17926.

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models.

Orion Weller, Nancy Fulda, and Kevin Seppi. 2020. Can humor prediction datasets be used for humor generation? humorous headline generation via style transfer. In *Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Figurative Language Processing*, pages 186–191, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Orion Weller and Kevin Seppi. 2019. Humor detection: A transformer gets the last laugh. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 3621–3625, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Peter West, Chandra Bhagavatula, Jack Hessel, Jena Hwang, Liwei Jiang, Ronan Le Bras, Ximing Lu, Sean Welleck, and Yejin Choi. 2022. Symbolic knowledge distillation: from general language models to commonsense models. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 4602–4625, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Peter West, Ximing Lu, Nouha Dziri, Faeze Brahman, Linjie Li, Jena D. Hwang, Liwei Jiang, Jillian Fisher, Abhilasha Ravichander, Khyathi Chandu, Benjamin Newman, Pang Wei Koh, Allyson Ettinger, and Yejin Choi. 2023. The generative ai paradox: "what it can create, it may not understand".

Zhihwei Yu, Jiwei Tan, and Xiaojun Wan. 2018. A neural approach to pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 1650–1660, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yuheng Zha, Yichi Yang, Ruichen Li, and Zhiting Hu. 2023. AlignScore: Evaluating factual consistency with a unified alignment function. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 11328–11348, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q. Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi. 2020. Bertscore: Evaluating text generation with bert. In *International Conference on Learning Representations*.

## A Pairwise breakdown of Human Scores

| Group | Baseline | WTR-H ↑ | WTR-C ↑ | WTR ↑ |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| 1 | BART | 23 | 38 | 29 |
| 2 | BART-BRIO | 43 | 32 | 45 |
| 3 | BART-DPO | 51 | 34 | 50 |

Table 6: Human Evaluation of student models against the teacher LLAMA2-70B.

## B Prompts for Generation

In Figure 3, we show the prompt used to obtain the humorous outputs from the teacher Llama2-70B model.

[Figure: Rounded light-blue prompt box containing: “Generate 3 creative and humorous paraphrases with the exact same meaning as the input text. Format the paraphrases as a list numbered as 1., 2., 3. etc. Answer with only the list of humorous paraphrases and nothing else, no exceptions.

Input text: {I}”]

Figure 3: Humor Generation

## C Prompts for Evaluation

In Figure 4, we show the prompt used to obtain the pairwise scores from the teacher Llama2-70B model.

[Figure: Rounded light-blue prompt box containing: “You will be given an input text from a conversation. You will then be given two paraphrase choices (1 or 2) for this input text. Choose the better paraphrase, based on how humorous and human-like it sounds, while staying true to the input text. Input text: {I} Paraphrases: 1. {P1} 2. {P2} Format your answer in this way - ‘Reason: A reason for your answer which is maximum 15 to 20 words long. ‘Answer: Your choice of 1 or 2’”]

Figure 4: Pairwise evaluation using Multiple Choice Prompting
