| Arbiter | Type | Ag-H↑ | Ag-C↑ | PB↓ | LB↓ |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Cloze | WTR-H | 57 | - | 0 | 18 |
| Cloze | WTR-C | - | 46 | 0 | 21 |
| Cloze | WTR | 57 | 47 | 0 | 25 |
| MCP | WTR-H | 76 | - | 18 | 17 |
| MCP | WTR-C | - | 65 | 28 | 19 |
| **MCP** | **WTR** | **76** | **59** | **15** | **20** |

Table 1: Evaluation of Human Agreement with different Arbiters - Agreement with Humor wins (Ag-H), Agreement with Consistency wins (Ag-C) and Positional Bias (PB), Length Bias (LB), Scores are multiplied by 100.

| Student | WTR$_{\mathrm{GPT4}}$↑ | WTR$_{\mathrm{llama2}}$↑ |
|---|---:|---:|
| BART-FT | 30 | 28 |
| BART-SD | 35 | 36 |
| BART-BRIO | 48 | 53 |
| BART-DPO | 52 | 60 |
| BART-BRIO-DPO | 56 | 65 |

Table 2: LLM-based Evaluation of student models - Win Tie Rate(WTR) is measured against the teacher (Llama2-70B) by the critic llama2 (WTR$_{\mathrm{llama2}}$) or external critic GPT-4 (WTR$_{\mathrm{GPT4}}$) using the method described in Sec 3.2. WTR is scaled by 100.

| Student | WTR$_{\mathrm{llama2}}$↑ |
|---|---:|
| BART-FT | 34 |
| BART-BRIO | 42 |
| BART-DPO | 47 |
| BART-BRIO-DPO | 49 |

Table 3: LLM-based Evaluation of student models on OOD test set (500 examples from (Gliwa et al., 2019)

| Model | # Data | Frequency | WTR$_{\mathrm{llama2}}$↑ |
|---|---:|---|---:|
| BART-FT | 36K | - | 30 |
| BART-FT | 24K | - | 26 |
| BART-FT | 12K | - | 24 |
| BART-BRIO | 36K | 1/10 epochs | 53 |
| BART-BRIO | 24K | 1/10 epochs | 45 |
| BART-BRIO | 12K | 1/10 epochs | 43 |
| BART-BRIO | 12K | 2/10 epochs | 56 |
| BART-BRIO | 12K | 10/10 epochs | 66 |

Table 4: Effect of data size and frequency of feedback on win rate of student models against the teacher.

## 5.2 RQ2:How do students trained with and without feedback compare?

Table 2 shows the results of the automatic evaluation for the proposed student models using the Win Tie Rate (WTR) metric. To gauge the student’s performance against the teacher that provided the training data, we compare the student outputs to the teacher’s references. Hence, we measure the WTR of the student vs. the teacher.

When employing BRIO for ranking feedback, BART-BRIO surpasses the imitation-based students (BART-FT and BART-SD) with notable increases in performance—13-18% and 19-25% based on evaluations by both GPT-4 and Llama2-70B, respectively. This suggests that in approximately 50% of cases, the student achieves comparable or superior performance to the teacher. When incorporating the same critic feedback as a preference learning objective through DPO (BART-DPO), we observe a similar trend of performance enhancement in the student, with the DPO baseline outperforming BRIO by a modest margin of 4-6%. Subsequently, we explore a combined approach utilizing both BRIO and DPO objectives, resulting in a further improvement of 4-6% over using DPO or BRIO independently.

**OOD Test Set** We show the performance of the BART-based student models on the OOD test set in Table 3. We can observe a similar trend of student performance improving with both BRIO and DPO feedback objectives. However, the BRIO-DPO variant results in a very minor performance boost indicating that further investigation is needed in combining ranking and preference learning objectives.

## 5.3 RQ3: How frequently should the teacher intervene?

To test whether the student can benefit from an increased frequency of feedback, we compare different versions in which we seek feedback from the teacher iteratively after every $K$ epoch which varies from 1, 5, and 10 (static). Table 4 shows that more frequent feedback has a positive impact on student performance, but the performance gains may saturate as feedback frequency is increased. There is also a trade-off between the communication cost with the teacher, which needs to be considered when providing more frequent feedback. This motivates future work in investigating this trade-off further, and approaches such as curriculum learning or active learning could be leveraged to choose which samples should receive feedback.

## 5.4 RQ4: How does data size affect student performance?

In this experiment, we assess the influence of the amount of data that is used to supervise the student. We examine the relationship between data
