ency or coherence). The score is computed by calculating the conditional probability of generating the target text. GEval (Liu et al., 2023a) is an alternative metric, that presents the instructions in a form-filling paradigm and uses the probabilities of output tokens from LLMs to normalize the scores (*e.g.* score between 1 and 5) resulting in finer-grained continuous scores. In contrast to GPTScore and GEval, LLM-Eval (Lin and Chen, 2023) uses a single prompt to evaluate multiple evaluation aspects, thus minimizing the calls to the LLM. Additionally, LLMs have also been used to assess the factuality of generated text (Zha et al., 2023). Mehri and Shwartz (2023) propose a learned evaluation metric via instruction tuning.

### 2.3 Imitation Learning from LLMs

The emergence of LLMs has caused a paradigm shift in NLP from traditional knowledge distillation (Hinton et al., 2015a) to an imitation-based data or response distillation. These approaches use LLMs as training data generators and train a smaller language model on this data (West et al., 2022). With subsequent work demonstrating that this may be a sparse form of distillation, leading to the student mimicking the style of the teacher, but not the reasoning abilities (Mukherjee et al., 2023; Gudibande et al., 2023), further extensions have been developed to distill a complete “Chain-of-Thought” (Wei et al., 2023) from the teacher model (Li et al., 2023a; Wang et al., 2023a; Shridhar et al., 2023; Magister et al., 2023; Hsieh et al., 2023), improving the performance of smaller language models.

### 2.4 LLM-based Alignment

A growing body of research leverages feedback from a language model to iteratively enhance its performance. This feedback may encompass written comments, numerical scoring, rankings, or explanations. Humpback (Li et al., 2023b) aims to construct a better instruction-tuning dataset through an iterative self-training algorithm. Self-Refine (Madaan et al., 2023) and REFINER (Paul et al., 2023) explore LLMs to engage in self-reflection, providing feedback and encouraging the use of this feedback to enhance their responses. I2D2 (Bhagavatula et al., 2023) demonstrates that small language models may improve if trained on their refined outputs generated using constrained decoding and filtered with a simple supervised critic model. Our work is inspired by BRIO (Liu et al., 2022, 2023b) for summarization, which reuses the generation model as the evaluation model to rank the candidates with contrastive learning. However, we avoid a ranking-based approach and use pairwise feedback due to the challenges in mitigating positional and length biases among multiple generations. Concurrent to our work, Zephyr (Tunstall et al., 2023) uses preference learning to align a student model to user intent by using preferences derived from different candidate models from a large teacher.

## 3 Method

Our proposed knowledge distillation framework is depicted in Fig. 2. Assuming that the teacher outperforms the student in the humor generation task, our objective is to bring the student’s performance closer to that of the teacher. We attempt to achieve this in two phases. First, in the imitation phase (Sec 3.1), the student undergoes finetuning using a set of humorous outputs $O = O_1, O_2, ..., O_n$ generated by the teacher for a given input $I$. In the critique phase (Sec 3.2), the finetuned student generates candidate output pairs $P = P_1, P_2$, which are then evaluated by a critic model. The scores obtained from the critic model are employed to train the student through a feedback-incorporation method.

### 3.1 Imitation Phase

During the imitation phase, we construct a dataset consisting of < literal, humorous > pairs and use it to directly train the student. As depicted in Fig. 2, the process begins with a literal text input ($I$) and prompting the teacher to generate $N = 3$ humorous paraphrases ($O$) of the input in a zero-shot setting. The utilization of $N$ outputs encourages diversity in student outputs, as it demonstrates multiple possible humorous paraphrases for a given input. The student is then finetuned on the constructed dataset by minimizing the cross entropy loss between the reference and predicted outputs.

### 3.2 Critique Phase

In the critique phase, we aim to improve the student’s task comprehension by teaching the student to differentiate between effective and ineffective humor.

**Critic** The critic, an LLM (Large Language Model), evaluates the humor quality of outputs from the finetuned student. Drawing from prior
