line to create students trained without and with feedback losses. For the first class of student models, we compare against,

- **BART-FT:** BART-FT-WS further finetuned using the same MLE objective.

- **BART-SD:** Indicating Self-Distillation (SD), BART-FT-WS is trained on only the positive candidates obtained from the critic(Sec. 3.2).

For the proposed feedback-based baselines,

- **BART-BRIO:** BART-FT-WS finetuned using the BRIO ranking objective for 10 epochs.

- **BART-DPO:** BART-FT-WS finetuned using the DPO objective for 10 epochs.

- **BART-BRIO-DPO:** BART-FT-WS finetuned using BRIO for 10 epochs, followed by DPO for an additional 10 epochs.

## 5 Experiments

Our overall goal is to investigate whether a creative generation ability such as humor can be taught through a combination of examples from the teacher, and feedback on the student responses. To answer this question, we focus our experiments on answering the following research questions:

① **RQ1:** How does the teacher perform as a critic?

② **RQ2:** How do students trained with and without feedback compare?

③ **RQ3:** How frequently should the teacher intervene?

④ **RQ4:** How does data size affect student performance?

⑤ **RQ5:** Does the length bias of the critic affect student responses?

### 5.1 RQ1: How does the teacher perform as a critic?

In order to validate the role of the teacher as a critic model, we conduct blind human evaluation by some of the authors (“annotators”). In Table 1, we analyze the alignment between human and LLM evaluation and compare two versions of the critic. Cloze prompting scores each paraphrase separately based on the perplexity of the template “The funny paraphrase of I is $P_i$” (for $i = 1, 2$). Conversely, Multiple Choice Prompting (MCP) presents the two paraphrases to the model and instructs it to choose the better one.

We ask the annotators to perform pairwise scoring of 100 blind pairs of humorous outputs. Annotators are asked to rank the paraphrases based on how humorous they are and how consistent they are with respect to the meaning of the input. We compare overall (WTR) and individual win tie rates for humor (WTR-H) and consistency (WTR-C) of the humorous outputs with the input using the critic model (Llama2-70B). We use the following metrics inspired by Saha et al. (2023b) to evaluate the two scoring methods:

**AgH and AgC.** We measure the LLM-Human Agreement (Ag) which is a score between [0, 1] indicating the percent of pairs that the annotator and the LLM agreed on. We compute agreement by independently matching each human judgment for each pair with the model judgment.

**Positional Bias (PB).** We measure the fraction of samples where the critic’s scoring changes based on the order in which the paraphrases are presented to it.

**Length Bias (LB).** LB aims to measure the model tendency to favor longer responses when the human did not. We measure length bias as the fraction of samples where humans prefer the shorter response, but the critic model prefers the longer response.

We observe that overall, MCP performs significantly better in terms of human agreement when compared to the cloze style evaluation, with an agreement on humor up to 76% and consistency of up to 65% across both forward and backward positions. Concerning length bias, both methods exhibit length bias in about 20-25% of the cases where they tend to prefer longer outputs than the humans. Although sub-metrics based on Humor (WTR-H) and Consistency (WTR-C) look promising, we found that combining them using simple (MEAN, AND) or more complex methods like BSM (Saha et al., 2023b) results in amplifying positional biases to a huge extent for this task. Hence, we use the overall WTR as the automatic metric to evaluate model responses both during training and evaluation.
