humor in edited news headlines. In *Proceedings of the Fourteenth Workshop on Semantic Evaluation*, pages 746–758, Barcelona (online). International Committee for Computational Linguistics.

Cheng-Yu Hsieh, Chun-Liang Li, Chih-kuan Yeh, Hootan Nakhost, Yasuhisa Fujii, Alex Ratner, Ranjay Krishna, Chen-Yu Lee, and Tomas Pfister. 2023. Distilling step-by-step! outperforming larger language models with less training data and smaller model sizes. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023*, pages 8003–8017, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jaehun Jung, Peter West, Liwei Jiang, Faeze Brahman, Ximing Lu, Jillian Fisher, Taylor Sorensen, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Impossible distillation: from low-quality model to high-quality dataset & model for summarization and paraphrasing.

Apoorv Kulshreshtha, Daniel De Freitas Adiwardana, David Richard So, Gaurav Nemade, Jamie Hall, Noah Fiedel, Quoc V. Le, Romal Thoppilan, Thang Luong, Yifeng Lu, and Zi Yang. 2020. Towards a human-like open-domain chatbot. *arXiv*.

Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman Mohamed, Omer Levy, Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020. BART: Denoising sequence-to-sequence pre-training for natural language generation, translation, and comprehension. In *Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 7871–7880, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Liunian Harold Li, Jack Hessel, Youngjae Yu, Xiang Ren, Kai-Wei Chang, and Yejin Choi. 2023a. Symbolic chain-of-thought distillation: Small models can also “think” step-by-step. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 2665–2679, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Xian Li, Ping Yu, Chunting Zhou, Timo Schick, Luke Zettlemoyer, Omer Levy, Jason Weston, and Mike Lewis. 2023b. Self-alignment with instruction back-translation. *ArXiv*, abs/2308.06259.

Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. ROUGE: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In *Text Summarization Branches Out*, pages 74–81, Barcelona, Spain. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yen-Ting Lin and Yun-Nung Chen. 2023. LLM-eval: Unified multi-dimensional automatic evaluation for open-domain conversations with large language models. In *Proceedings of the 5th Workshop on NLP for Conversational AI (NLP4ConvAI 2023)*, pages 47–58, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yang Liu, Dan Iter, Yichong Xu, Shuo Wang, Ruochen Xu, and Chenguang Zhu. 2023a. G-eval: Nlg evaluation using gpt-4 with better human alignment. *ArXiv*, abs/2303.16634.

Yixin Liu, Alexander R. Fabbri, Pengfei Liu, Dragomir Radev, and Arman Cohan. 2023b. On learning to summarize with large language models as references.

Yixin Liu, Pengfei Liu, Dragomir Radev, and Graham Neubig. 2022. BRIO: Bringing order to abstractive summarization. In *Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 2890–2903, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zhengyuan Liu and Nancy Chen. 2022. Learning from bootstrapping and stepwise reinforcement reward: A semi-supervised framework for text style transfer. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2022*, pages 2633–2648, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Fuli Luo, Shunyao Li, Pengcheng Yang, Lei Li, Baobao Chang, Zhifang Sui, and Xu Sun. 2019. Pun-GAN: Generative adversarial network for pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 3388–3393, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri Alon, Nouha Dziri, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang, Sean Welleck, Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder, Shashank Gupta, Amir Yazdanbakhsh, and Peter Clark. 2023. Self-refine: Iterative refinement with self-feedback. *ArXiv*, abs/2303.17651.

Lucie Charlotte Magister, Jonathan Mallinson, Jakub Adamek, Eric Malmi, and Aliaksei Severyn. 2023. Teaching small language models to reason. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 1773–1781, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Shuhaib Mehri and Vered Shwartz. 2023. Automatic evaluation of generative models with instruction tuning.

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. Making computers laugh: Investigations in automatic humor recognition. In *Human Language Technology - The Baltic Perspective*.

Anirudh Mittal, Yufei Tian, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. AmbiPun: Generating humorous puns with ambiguous context. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 1053–1062, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Subhabrata Mukherjee, Arindam Mitra, Ganesh Jawahar, Sahaj Agarwal, Hamid Palangi, and Ahmed Awadallah. 2023. Orca: Progressive learning from complex explanation traces of gpt-4.

OpenAI. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report.

Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In *Proceedings of the 40th*
