## 8 Limitations

**Quantifying Humor** Measuring humor, especially in computational contexts, is inherently subjective and may not be accurately captured using simple metrics.

**Cultural references** We observed that some of the generated humorous outputs were referring to celebrities and events in North America. As humor varies widely across individuals and cultures, the proposed models may not generalize well across diverse demographic and cultural groups.

**Bias propagation** Training on feedback data from the LLM may lead to the propagation of any existing biases in the LLM’s training data. If the LLM’s data lacks diversity, these biases could be intensified in the smaller model. Similarly, the biases in model evaluation can also be propagated to the student.

## 9 Ethical Considerations

**Data.** The datasets used to gather the literal inputs outlined in Sec 4 are publicly accessible. Some of these datasets include crowdsourced annotations about emotional events, which may contain offensive, biased or hateful content. We use the chat variant of the llama2 that is aligned on generating safe warnings and responses when offensive content may be present. Further, the Llama2 model generates such warnings for about 3-4% of our inputs, and we discarded these inputs from the data distilled into the student.

**Celebrity references.** As shown in Figure 1, the teacher LLM makes references and analogies to celebrities primarily from North America. When used as analogies for negative connotations, the humor generated may be considered offensive to specific people.

## References

Chandra Bhagavatula, Jena D. Hwang, Doug Downey, Ronan Le Bras, Ximing Lu, Lianhui Qin, Keisuke Sakaguchi, Swabha Swayamdipta, Peter West, and Yejin Choi. 2023. I2D2: Inductive knowledge distillation with NeuroLogic and self-imitation. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 9614–9630, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tuhin Chakrabarty, Philippe Laban, Divyansh Agarwal, Smaranda Muresan, and Chien-Sheng Wu. 2023. Art or artifice? large language models and the false promise of creativity. *ArXiv*, abs/2309.14556.

Tuhin Chakrabarty, Arkadiy Saakyan, Debanjan Ghosh, and Smaranda Muresan. 2022. FLUTE: Figurative language understanding through textual explanations. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 7139–7159, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jun Chen, Deyao Zhu, Xiaoqian Shen, Xiang Li, Zechun Liu, Pengchuan Zhang, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Vikas Chandra, Yunyang Xiong, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. 2023. Minigpt-v2: Large language model as a unified interface for vision-language multi-task learning. *arXiv:2310.09478*.

Peng-Yu Chen and Von-Wun Soo. 2018. Humor recognition using deep learning. In *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers)*, pages 113–117, New Orleans, Louisiana. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jinlan Fu, See-Kiong Ng, Zhengbao Jiang, and Pengfei Liu. 2023. Gptscore: Evaluate as you desire. *ArXiv*, abs/2302.04166.

Aparna Garimella, Carmen Banea, Nabil Hossain, and Rada Mihalcea. 2020. “judge me by my size (noun), do you?” YodaLib: A demographic-aware humor generation framework. In *Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics*, pages 2814–2825, Barcelona, Spain (Online). International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Bogdan Gliwa, Iwona Mochol, Maciej Biesek, and Aleksander Wawer. 2019. SAMSum corpus: A human-annotated dialogue dataset for abstractive summarization. In *Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on New Frontiers in Summarization*, pages 70–79, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Arnav Gudibande, Eric Wallace, Charlie Snell, Xinyang Geng, Hao Liu, Pieter Abbeel, Sergey Levine, and Dawn Song. 2023. The false promise of imitating proprietary llms.

Jack Hessel, Ana Marasovic, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 688–714, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeff Dean. 2015a. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network.

Geoffrey E. Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeffrey Dean. 2015b. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network. *ArXiv*, abs/1503.02531.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, Michael Gamon, and Henry Kautz. 2020. SemEval-2020 task 7: Assessing
