faced with two candidate humorous paraphrases, $P_i$ and $P_j$, and $P_i$ attains a higher quality score from the critic, the student is guided to assign a probability to $P_i$ that exceeds twice that of $P_j$.

$$
\hat{\mathcal{L}}_{ctr}(\theta) =
\sum_{S_i,S_j \in \mathcal{S}_c, i<j}
\max \left(0, \bar{p}_s(S_j \mid D;\theta)
- \bar{p}_s(S_i \mid D;\theta) + \frac{1}{\lambda}\log 2(j-i)\right)
$$

where $\lambda$ corresponds to the average output length, and $\bar{p}_s$ corresponds to the length normalized log probabilities of paraphrases $i$ and $j$. Following Liu et al. (2022), we combine the cross-entropy loss used in the imitation phase with the margin loss as a multi-task loss, to maintain the generation abilities of the student.

3. *BRIO-DPO*: We also experiment with combining both ranking and preference learning - for this variant, we obtain the contrastive pairs for the BRIO training from the teacher instead of the student, by letting the teacher rank two of its own responses. In this case, the BRIO loss is considered as supervision rather than feedback. The preference pairs for DPO still come from the student. To achieve this, we first train the student on BRIO, and use this model to initialize the DPO training.

We experiment with both one-shot and iterative feedback as shown in Figure 2, where the student may receive feedback from the teacher more than once.

## 4 Experimental Setup

**Dataset.** Similar to FLUTE (Chakrabarty et al., 2022), we pick literal input sentences from the EmpatheticDialogues dataset (Rashkin et al., 2019). Each conversation is obtained by pairing a speaker and a listener, where the speaker talks emotionally about personal matters, and the listener infers the underlying emotion and responds empathetically. We sample 12,000 sentences from the training set and generate $N = 3$ responses from the teacher to create 36,000 literal-humorous text pairs. We sampled 1,000 sentences from the validation and test sets for evaluating the student and 100 samples from the test set for human evaluation. For out-of-distribution (OOD) evaluation, we sample 500 literal inputs from Samsum (Gliwa et al., 2019).

**Teacher Model.** We use the 70B chat version of Llama 2 (Touvron et al., 2023) as the teacher model. We generate responses from the teacher using a temperature of 0.8 using nucleus sampling with top_p = 1.

**Student Model.** For student model, we focus on BART-large (Lewis et al., 2020). All the BART student responses are obtained using beam search with the number of beams set to 5 during generation.

**Metrics.** Traditional generation metrics such as ROUGE (Lin, 2004), may not work well for the creative task of generating humor. Inspired by prior work (Liu et al., 2023a; Fu et al., 2023), we use the LLM-based metric of **Win Tie Rate (WTR)** also described in Sec 3.2 for automatic evaluation. WTR aims to compare a pair of paraphrases and measures whether one paraphrase is equally (tie) or more (win) creative/humorous than the other, while preserving the meaning of the original input (consistency). In this work, we are more interested in humor than consistency - humor is essential, consistency can be subjective and optional based on the type of humor used (e.g. sarcasm). To make it more straightforward for human evaluation, we ask humans to provide individual WTR for the humor WTR separately from consistency WTR. We compute the automatic WTR of the student models using both the critic model based on Llama2-70B and GPT4 (OpenAI, 2023).

**Length and Positional Biases** The critic is prone to two major biases - Position Bias, where evaluation changes based on the encoding order of the responses and Length Bias, the tendency to favor longer responses. To mitigate length bias, during the feedback training phase, we incorporate only a subset of the candidate training pairs, filtered to maintain near-equal length between the two candidates (with a length ratio falling within the range of 0.8 to 1.2). This selection is intended to counteract the length bias resulting from the teacher’s inclination towards longer outputs which has also been observed in prior work regarding AI (Saha et al., 2023a) as well as human feedback(Shen et al., 2023). To mitigate positional bias, we average all our win rates by letting the paraphrases take both position 1 and position 2.

**Baselines.** We finetune BART-large for 10 epochs on the teacher data using the Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE) objective (Sec. 3.1). This baseline is denoted as BART-FT-WS (WS stands for Warm Start). We further refine this base-
