<table>
<tr>
<td colspan="2">Input: I am a stay at home mom.</td>
<td colspan="2">Input: i felt bad about sleeping in today.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th align="left">BART-FT</th>
<th align="left">BART-DPO</th>
<th align="left">BART-FT</th>
<th align="left">BART-BRIO</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>I’m a stay-at-home mom,<br>and I’m loving every<br>minute of it!</td>
<td>I’m a stay-at-home superhero,<br>saving the world one diaper<br>change at a time.</td>
<td>I was feeling a bit guilty<br>about my morning<br>snooze-fest.</td>
<td>I woke up feeling like a sloth<br>who’s been snoozed out for so<br>long, I’m pretty sure I’ve heard<br>the sound of snores echoing off<br>the walls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" align="center">(a)</td>
<td colspan="2" align="center">(b)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2">Input: My son failed a really important test.</td>
<td colspan="2">Input: My wife and I are going to buy are very first<br>brand new car this week</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th align="left">BART-FT</th>
<th align="left">BART-BRIO-DPO</th>
<th align="left">BART-DPO</th>
<th align="left">BART-DPO-ITER2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>My son’s test score was<br>lower than a<br>Kardashian’s Instagram<br>followers.</td>
<td>My son’s test results were so<br>bad, I’m pretty sure he’s been<br>secretly practicing his<br>’I’m-not-a-complete-failure’<br>face for weeks.</td>
<td>We’re finally upgrading<br>our ride from a rusty old<br>clunker to a sleek, sexy<br>beast of a car.</td>
<td>We’re upgrading our<br>transportation game from "legs"<br>to "wheels" this week!</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" align="center">(c)</td>
<td colspan="2" align="center">(d)</td>
</tr>
</table>

Table 5: Qualitative Examples showcasing variants trained with different types of feedback

size and performance by varying data size between 4,000, 8,000, and 12,000 literal sentences, in all cases providing 3 humorous paraphrases per example. Table 4 shows that simply increasing the data size may be insufficient to improving the performance. The performance is lower than that of the more sophisticated teaching approach, specifically incorporating feedback, which proved to be more beneficial and data-efficient. We can observe that, the model with feedback trained on 12K examples still performed better than a model trained without feedback with triple the number of examples.

### 5.5 RQ5: Does length bias of the critic affect student responses?

The length bias in the teacher is propagated to the student, especially when trained over longer periods and more so with the BRIO or ranking objective. Without any mitigation strategies, the length of the student outputs can almost double compared to the input text. As described in our Sec 3, we also filter pairs that are significantly longer than one another during training to prevent the student from learning to optimize for length. This is similar to the length correlation observed in human feedback (Singhal et al., 2023). Addressing this issue requires addressing length bias in Multiple Choice Prompting in LLMs, which is an evolving research area (Wang et al., 2023b; Shen et al., 2023).

## 6 Qualitative Analysis

Figure 5 highlights instances where each of the feedback objectives (BART-DPO, BART-BRIO, and BART-BRIO-DPO) outperforms the BART-FT baseline trained solely through imitation learning. In Figure 5a, BART-DPO produces a response that exhibits a higher degree of humor compared to BART-FT. In Figure 5b, both BART-FT and BART-BRIO generate humorous responses, with BRIO’s output slightly edging in humor but at the expense of being longer. Figure 5c, BART-BRIO-DPO generates a more contextually relevant and amusing paraphrase in comparison to the BART-FT student. Lastly, Figure 5d demonstrates an instance where the BART-DPO variant, receiving feedback for two iterations instead of one, exhibits superior performance compared to its counterpart trained with only one iteration of feedback.

## 7 Conclusions

We present a novel framework for knowledge distillation in the context of humor generation, with the teacher LLM providing references and feedback on a smaller student model’s performance. Our approach involves leveraging a critic to guide the student model toward generating more humorous outputs. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated through evaluations conducted by both the LLM and humans. Additionally, we analyze the effect of various design choices on the performance, such as the frequency of feedback and training set size. Our analysis sheds light on the limitations of LLM-based critics, and serves as motivation for future research in mitigation of biases in LLM-based evaluation and AI feedback.
