<pre>
 1  # add LoRA to the visual module of Qwen-VL
 2  QWenLMHeadModel(
 3    (transformer): QWenModel(
 4      ......
 5      (visual): VisionTransformer(
 6        (conv1): Conv2d(3, 1664, kernel_size=(14, 14), stride=(14, 14), bias=False)
 7        (ln_pre): LayerNorm((1664,), eps=1e-06, elementwise_affine=True)
 8        (transformer): TransformerBlock(
 9          (resblocks): ModuleList(
10            (0-47): 48 x VisualAttentionBlock(
11              (ln_1): LayerNorm((1664,), eps=1e-06, elementwise_affine=True)
12              (ln_2): LayerNorm((1664,), eps=1e-06, elementwise_affine=True)
13              (attn): VisualAttention(
14                (in_proj): Linear(in_features=1664, out_features=4992, \
15                bias=True)  # + LoRA
16                (out_proj): Linear(in_features=1664, out_features=1664, \
17                bias=True)  # + LoRA
18              )
19              (mlp): Sequential(
20                (c_fc): Linear(in_features=1664, out_features=8192, bias=True) # + LoRA
21                (gelu): GELU(approximate='none')
22                (c_proj): Linear(in_features=8192, out_features=1664, bias=True)
23              )
24            )
25          )
26        )
27        (attn_pool): Resampler(
28          (kv_proj): Linear(in_features=1664, out_features=4096, bias=False)
29          (attn): MultiheadAttention(
30            (out_proj): NonDynamicallyQuantizableLinear(in_features=4096, \
31            out_features=4096, bias=True)  # + LoRA
32          )
33          (ln_q): LayerNorm((4096,), eps=1e-06, elementwise_affine=True)
34          (ln_kv): LayerNorm((4096,), eps=1e-06, elementwise_affine=True)
35        )
36        (ln_post): LayerNorm((4096,), eps=1e-06, elementwise_affine=True)
37      )
38    )
39    (lm_head): Linear(in_features=4096, out_features=151936, bias=False)
40  )
</pre>

To investigate the appropriate insertion strategy for LoRA, we conduct three sets of associable instruction tuning experiments using Oogiri-GO I2T data. LoRA is inserted separately into the textual, visual, and both textual and visual modules of Qwen-VL. Experimental results indicate that, based on the 3T1 metric, the accuracy of LoRA insertion solely into the textual module (38.8) surpasses the performance of simultaneous insertion into both textual and visual modules (37.0), while the accuracy is lowest when LoRA is inserted only into the visual module (25.4). Therefore, we exclusively train LoRA in the textual module of Qwen-VL.

**E.4. The Extraction of Weakly-associated Conditions**

The core of explorative remote association is to prompt the LLM to generate a diverse array of creative responses under weakly-associated conditions. To implement this, we extract a set of object nouns from the text in the Oogiri-GO training data. In this section, we provide the details of the extraction of weakly-associated conditions.

We initiate by extracting a set of nouns from the responses in data of Oogiri-GO. For this, we employ NLTK [92], Jieba <sup>4</sup>, and Janome <sup>5</sup> for various languages, considering the performance differences of different part-of-speech analysis tools across

---

<sup>4</sup>https://github.com/fxsjy/jieba  
<sup>5</sup>https://github.com/mocobeta/janome
