mor generation. Moreover, directly fine-tuning LLMs on the Oogiri-GO is not easy to improve the LoT ability. The more efficient utilization of humorous knowledge is needed to help LLM elicit creative responses.

Motivated by the human mental leap exercise process of “remote association & self-refinement” [30], to enable LLMs with strong LoT ability for creation, we propose the Creative Leap-of-Thought (CLoT) paradigm which relies on two LoT-boosting stages. The first one is the associable instruction tuning stage which designs an associable instruction template to formulate the Oogiri-GO dataset into instruction data and trains an LLM to improve its LoT ability. The core here is the instruction template with a dual purpose: it randomly provides LLM with clues to establish connections between game inputs and creative responses, while also introducing empty clues to encourage LLM for unrestrained exploration and remote association thinking.

The second stage is explorative self-refinement which encourages the LLM to generate more creative LoT data via exploring parallels between seemingly unrelated concepts under weakly-associated conditions, and selects high-quality data to train itself for self-refinement. These weakly-associated conditions can either be empty, or randomly sampled from an object noun set collected from the Oogiri-GO dataset. The former empty conditions to allow LLM to operate freely, and the latter ones help the LLM to link seemingly-unrelated and weakly-related concepts, and encourage the LLM to explore knowledge outside of traditional cognitive limitations. This exploration strategy can help generate diverse high-quality data for self-refinement.

Experimental results show that CLoT can greatly enhance the LoT ability of LLMs like Qwen [1] and CogVLM [29] across several types of Oogiri games. Specifically, CLoT can help LLMs to generate much better humors in Fig. 1. Moreover, CLoT-integrated LLMs achieve higher quantitative performance than the corresponding vanilla and CoT-integrated LLMs across the multiple-choice and ranking questions in the Oogiri game. Also, CLoT can boost creative abilities on other tasks like “cloud guessing game” and “divergent association task” [31–33], showing its remarkable generalization ability.

## 2. Related Works

**(1) Oogiri game (大喜利)** is a general term for a series of traditional Japanese comedy games. In ancient times, there were different types of Oogiri, such as actors performing sumo wrestling, telling ghost stories, etc. The modern Oogiri game mainly refers to one specific type known as Tonchi (頓智), typically presented in the format of game shows or intellectual quiz programs [28]. Players are provided with various multimodal contents, which can be simple questions, random images, etc., and are then prompted to come up with humorous, creative responses to achieve surprising comedic effects, as the examples are shown in Fig. 3. It is worth noting that the character “頓” in both Japanese and Chinese denote “sudden”, while “智” means “intelligence, insight or intuition”. This highlights the connection between the Oogiri game and the requirement for strong associative abilities in LoT, making Oogiri an ideal platform for exploring LoT capabilities within LLMs.

**(2) Multimodal LLMs and their creativity.** Recently, multimodal Language Models [1, 29, 34, 35] have garnered significant attention, particularly due to their impressive reasoning abilities [7–12, 36]. Moreover, there is a growing focus on exploring the creativity [37–40] of LLMs for applications such as scientific discovery [18, 41–44], creative writing [45–49], etc.

**(3) Computational humor** is a branch of computational linguistics and artificial intelligence that uses computers in humor research [50], which encompasses various tasks, including humor detection [51–58], humor interpretation [58–61], and humor generation [62–67], etc. With the advancement of generative LLMs [1, 4, 29], humor generation has become a popular focus while humor generation still faces challenges such as insufficient punchlines [68] and limited in multimodal contexts [69, 70].

**(4) Chain-of-Thought based Methods** provide the models with “chain of thoughts” [2, 3, 14–16], i.e., reasoning exemplars [3], or a simple prompt “Let’s think step by step” [2], to encourage LLMs to engage in reasoning rather than simply providing answers directly [71].

| Category | English | Chinese | Japanese | Total |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| I2T | 17, 336 | 32, 130 | 40, 278 | 89, 744 |
| T2T | 6, 433 | 15, 797 | 11, 842 | 34, 072 |
| IT2T | — | 912 | 9, 420 | 10, 332 |

Table 1. Data distribution of the Oogiri-GO dataset. For the IT2T task, its English version is not available due to cultural preference.

## 3. Oogiri-GO Dataset

As introduced in Sec. 2, in the Oogiri game, the participants need to unexpectedly and humorously respond to the given images, text, or both. See three types of examples in Fig. 3. This game requests a sudden burst of insight and strong associative thinking to the given context, and provides an ideal platform to assess the leap-of-thought (LoT) ability of LLMs. Accordingly, we collect Oogiri game data to build a large-scale Oogiri-GO dataset which serves as a benchmark to evaluate and improve LoT ability.

Specifically, Oogiri-GO is a multimodal and multilingual humor dataset, and contains more than 130,000 Oogiri samples in English, Chinese, and Japanese. Notably, in Oogiri-GO, 77.95% of samples are annotated with human preferences, namely the number of likes, indicating the popularity of a response. As illustrated in Fig. 3, Oogiri-GO contains three types of Oogiri games according to the input that can
