Do androids laugh at electric sheep? Humor “understanding” benchmarks from The New Yorker Caption Contest. In *Proceedings of the ACL*, 2023. 6, 16

[82] Kalervo Järvelin and Jaana Kekäläinen. Cumulated gain-based evaluation of ir techniques. *ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS)*, 20(4):422–446, 2002. 6

[83] Filip Radlinski and Nick Craswell. Comparing the sensitivity of information retrieval metrics. In *Proceedings of the 33rd international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval*, pages 667–674, 2010. 6, 16

[84] Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc Le, Ed Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery, and Denny Zhou. Self-consistency improves chain of thought reasoning in language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.11171*, 2022. 7

[85] Zhongzhan Huang, Pan Zhou, Shuicheng YAN, and Liang Lin. Scalelong: Towards more stable training of diffusion model via scaling network long skip connection. In *Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems*, 2023. 8, 24

[86] Changhao Shi, Haomiao Ni, Kai Li, Shaobo Han, Mingfu Liang, and Martin Renqiang Min. Exploring compositional visual generation with latent classifier guidance. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*, pages 853–862, 2023. 8, 24

[87] Kenes Beketayev and Mark A Runco. Scoring divergent thinking tests by computer with a semantics-based algorithm. *Europe’s journal of psychology*, 12(2):210, 2016. 8, 2, 25

[88] Jiaxi Tang and Ke Wang. Ranking distillation: Learning compact ranking models with high performance for recommender system. In *Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery & data mining*, pages 2289–2298, 2018. 16

[89] Koustuv Sinha, Robin Jia, Dieuwke Hupkes, Joelle Pineau, Adina Williams, and Douwe Kiela. Masked language modeling and the distributional hypothesis: Order word matters pre-training for little. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.06644*, 2021. 20

[90] Julian Salazar, Davis Liang, Toan Q Nguyen, and Katrin Kirchhoff. Masked language model scoring. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.14659*, 2019.

[91] Yonatan Bitton, Gabriel Stanovsky, Michael Elhadad, and Roy Schwartz. Data efficient masked language modeling for vision and language. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.02040*, 2021. 20

[92] Steven Bird, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper. *Natural language processing with Python: analyzing text with the natural language toolkit.* ” O’Reilly Media, Inc.”, 2009. 21

[93] Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher D Manning. Glove: Global vectors for word representation. In *Proceedings of the 2014 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (EMNLP)*, pages 1532–1543, 2014. 25

[94] Jamshed Memon, Maira Sami, Rizwan Ahmed Khan, and Mueen Uddin. Handwritten optical character recognition (ocr): A comprehensive systematic literature review (slr). *IEEE Access*, 8:142642–142668, 2020. 28

[95] Minghao Li, Tengchao Lv, Jingye Chen, Lei Cui, Yijuan Lu, Dinei Florencio, Cha Zhang, Zhoujun Li, and Furu Wei. Trocr: Transformer-based optical character recognition with pre-trained models. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, volume 37, pages 13094–13102, 2023. 28

[96] Patrick Pérez, Michel Gangnet, and Andrew Blake. Poisson image editing. In *Seminal Graphics Papers: Pushing the Boundaries, Volume 2*, pages 577–582. 2023. 28

[97] Felix Stahlberg. Neural machine translation: A review. *Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research*, 69:343–418, 2020. 28

[98] Shouheng Yang, Yuxin Wang, and Xiaowen Chu. A survey of deep learning techniques for neural machine translation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.07526*, 2020. 28

[99] Yuexiang Zhai, Shengbang Tong, Xiao Li, Mu Cai, Qing Qu, Yong Jae Lee, and Yi Ma. Investigating the catastrophic forgetting in multimodal large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.10313*, 2023. 29

[100] Guile Wu, Shaogang Gong, and Pan Li. Striking a balance between stability and plasticity for class-incremental learning. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision*, pages 1124–1133, 2021. 29

[101] Zhongzhan Huang, Mingfu Liang, Senwei Liang, and Wei He. Altersgd: Finding flat minima for continual learning by alternative training. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.05804*, 2021.

[102] Mingfu Liang, Jiahuan Zhou, Wei Wei, and Ying Wu. Balancing between forgetting and acquisition in incremental subpopulation learning. In *European Conference on Computer Vision*, pages 364–380. Springer, 2022. 29
