## E. Experimental Details

### E.1. The Details of Implementation Details

**Metrics.** In this paper, we delve into experiments that include choice and ranking questions inspired by the humor benchmarks in [81]. Additionally, we conduct a user study to directly evaluate the effectiveness of humor generation, along with other creative tasks such as the Cloud Guessing Game (CGG) and the Divergent Association Task (DAT). Subsequently, individual metrics for each of these experiments will be provided.

(1) For the *choice questions*, we utilize classification accuracy as the evaluation metric. Specifically, the accuracy of LLMs is calculated by dividing the number of correctly answered questions by the total number of questions.

(2) For the *ranking questions*. we adopt the widely used ranking metric, i.e., Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG) [83]. We adopt top-1 accuracy as the positions at the top of rank lists are more significant in ranking scenarios [88].

(3) For the *user study*, we conduct a user survey, tallying the total number of votes received by various LLMs across different categories of Oogiri. Subsequently, we calculate the percentage of votes each LLM garnered in relation to its overall vote count for different types. see Appendix E.5 for more details.

(4) For the *other creative tasks*, we employed classification accuracy and average semantic distance (ASD) as metrics for the CGG and DAT tasks, respectively . ASD represents the average semantic distance of all test examples, where the semantic distance for each test example is calculated based on the ten words following the completion of each choice question. see Appendix F for more details.

**Hyperparameters of Associable Instruction Tuning.** For “Image” condition, it relies on the type of Oogiri game, e.g., being the image embeddings in I2T game and empty in T2T type. For the “condition” option, it’s set to empty with a probability of $\rho_c$, and otherwise is randomly set as one noun in “task-specific responses”. We set the value of $\rho_c$ to 0.50. This setting is driven by the fact that training LLMs to perform associable generation assists in the remote association of self-refinement, and unconditionally controlling leap-of-thought generation is the capability we aim for the model to acquire.

**Hyperparameters of Explorative Self-Refinement.** During explorative remote association, we generate $n$ weakly-associated conditions $\{C_i\}_{i=1}^n$. These conditions can either be empty with a probability $\rho = 0.5$ to give freedom to LLM, or uniformly randomly sampled from the noun set $S$ to enforce LLM to build connections between different concepts. Next, we add the condition $C_i$ into user-input $I$, and feed $I$ into the LLM to generate a humor candidate $R_i$. Repeating this process with different conditions $C_i$ can generate a total of $n$ candidates $\{R_i\}_{i=1}^n$. We set the value of $n$ to 5, aiming not only to control the difficulty of ranking for reliable results but also to align with the number of options in the discrimination during associable instruction tuning. Then the LLM ranks these candidates by its discriminative ranking ability learned in Sec. 4.1 (main text). Next, it mixes the top-2 candidates with the ground truth responses, and selects the top-1 as the final response.

Here we not only incorporate ranking but also introduce a selection process to achieve explorative remote association. This decision is based on our experimental results, as demonstrated in the experimental section, indicating that the accuracy of LLMs tends to increase with a decrease in the number of choices for choice questions. Directly having LLMs choose an option from a pool of $n$ candidates poses a significant challenge. Hence, we design a two-step process involving ranking followed by selection. Furthermore, the choice of selecting the Top-2 candidates from the ranking results is intended to ensure the accuracy of LLMs in completing choice questions.

**Hyperparameters of Training.** We use the official code of Qwen-VL [1] and CogVLM [29] for implementation and training. All models are trained utilizing 8 Nvidia A100 (40G) GPUs. The training and hyperparameters for each model are specified as follows.

(1) Qwen-VL$_{+\mathrm{CLoT}}$ is trained using AdamW optimizer with $\beta_1 = 0.9, \beta_2 = 0.95, eps = 1e^{-8}$. We set the learning rate to $1e^{-5}$ and use a weight decay of $1e^{-1}$. The training process uses a batch size of 64. LoRA in Qwen-VL has a rank of 64, a normalization parameter of 16, and a dropout rate of 0.05.

(2) CogVLM-17B$_{+\mathrm{CLoT}}$ is trained using AdamW optimizer with $\beta_1 = 0.9, \beta_2 = 0.95, eps = 1e^{-8}$. We set the learning rate to $1e^{-5}$ and use a weight decay of $5e^{-2}$. The training process uses a batch size of 128. LoRA in CogVLM-17B has a rank of 10, a normalization parameter of 1, and a dropout rate of 0.00.

### E.2. The Details of Instruction Templates

After completing data collection and screening, the next step is to transform the collected Oogiri data into instruction-tuning data that will be utilized to train models. We design some LoT-oriented instruction templates to transform the Oogiri-GO dataset into instruction tuning data, and then train LLM to achieve associable generation and discrimination abilities. Our templates primarily comprise two components in Fig. 23: task-specific prompt and response. For different abilities, the templates need some special design. In this section, we will elaborate on the details of instruction templates for each task.
