## A. Introduction of Appendix

The appendix is structured as follows. In Appendix B, we initially provide a detailed summary of the novelty in our paper and emphasize that our proposed CLoT is not tailored for humor generation. Instead, it focuses on the Leaf-of-Thought capability of large language models. In Appendix C, we further demonstrate the superiority of CLoT through various aspects. Firstly, we showcase the performance of CLoT in each language, i.e., English, Chinese, and Japanese respectively, emphasizing its versatility across languages. Following that, to illustrate CLoT’s impact on enhancing creativity, we present its ability to generate diverse creative solutions for the same Oogiri game data sample. Lastly, we provide additional generated humor responses of various types of Oogiri games for different LLMs. Appendix D outlines the construction details of the Oogiri-GO dataset, encompassing the data collection process and both machine and human-driven filtering processes. In Appendix E, we meticulously detail main experiments presented in this paper, while Appendix F provides a comprehensive description of other creative tasks. Furthermore, Appendix G discusses two pivotal issues during the self-refinement phase, namely the round of refinement and potential performance collapse. Finally, in Appendix H, we address noteworthy concerns about the leaf-of-thought through a series of discussions.

## B. Highlight Perspective

### B.1. The Novelty of Our Paper.

The novelty of this paper can be summarized as follows:

- (<u>**Pioneering**</u>) To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to profoundly explore the Leap-of-Thought (LoT) capability in multimodal large language models (LLMs). This involves challenging LLMs to think outside the box, a non-sequential thinking skill equally crucial alongside popular sequential thinking abilities, such as Chain-of-Thought based methods [2, 3, 14–16]. The LoT ability serves as a cornerstone for creative exploration and discovery in LLMs.
- (<u>**Large-scale Creative Dataset**</u>) Given the scarcity of large-scale datasets for investigating creativity in the current community and the inherent challenges in collecting creative data (refer to Appendix G.1), in this paper, we identify the Oogiri game as an ideal platform for exploring the LoT ability of LLMs (refer to Appendix B.2), and gather over 130,000 creative data samples about Oogiri game, forming a large-scale creative dataset named Oogiri-GO.
- (<u>**Novel Paradigm for Improving LoT**</u>) Our experiments and analysis reveal that existing LLMs struggle to evoke LoT ability solely relying on their intrinsic reasoning abilities and extensive prior knowledge. Therefore, we propose a novel Creative Leap-of-Thought (CLoT) paradigm, employing associable instruction tuning and explorative self-refinement to significantly enhance LLMs’ LoT ability. Further experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and versatility of the proposed CLoT across various creative tasks.

### B.2. The Proposed CLoT is not Tailored for Humor Generation

In this paper, our primary focus is on exploring the Leap-of-Thought (LoT) capability of large language models, a crucial cognitive skill akin to Chain-of-Thought [2, 3, 14–16], rather than humor generation per se. The selection of the Oogiri game as the humor generation task in this study is justified on following three main grounds:

(1) <u>**The Oogiri game serves as an ideal platform for investigating the LLM’s LoT ability.**</u> As discussed in the related works section, the Oogiri game aligns well with the characteristics of LoT, demanding players to think creatively outside the box in response to multimodal information. Moreover, the three primary types within the Oogiri game (including I2T, T2T, and IT2T) also align with the input and output types of multimodal LLMs. Hence, the Oogiri game proves highly suitable for exploring the LoT capability of LLMs;

(2) <u>**The Oogiri game boasts a substantial corpus of manually annotated creative data.**</u> Due to its widespread popularity on the Internet, the game attracts a large user base generating creative human responses which can constitute an extensive dataset for LoT exploration;

(3) <u>**The Oogiri game facilitates visualization for measuring LoT ability.**</u> Unlike most association-related cognitive tests [33, 87], the Oogiri game, being inherently a text and image multimodal task, lends itself readily to visualizing LoT ability in a clear and interesting format. Furthermore, this method of showcasing LoT ability, coupled with the amusement factor of the Oogiri game, encourages a broader audience to participate in LoT measurement, ensuring the accuracy of LoT analysis.
