### F.2. The Details of Divergent Association Task (DAT)

For DAT, it is a classic creativity test [33, 87] which needs participants to choose words with larger semantic distances among 10 unrelated nouns. Building on existing research findings that suggest participants with the ability to select unrelated nouns with large semantic distances tend to have stronger associative ability, we leverage this insight to analyze the LoT ability of LLMs using the DAT benchmark [33]. To streamline the analysis, we adapt the DAT benchmark into a series of choice questions, with the standard average semantic distance (ASD) measured by GloVe [93] serving as the metric. These questions challenge LLMs to choose the word from a set of nine options that differs the most from the given word.

<div style="border: 1px solid #777; padding: 0.6em 1em; margin: 1em 0;">

Please carefully understand the provided question and select the option that satisfies the problem. Only one option meets the requirements. Question: Please select the option least relevant to the current set of words.  
Words: &lt;Words&gt;  
Options: &lt;Options&gt;  
Answer Format: Please respond in the format of ’Option id. Option content,’ for example, ’A. xxx.’ Response: Satisfactory option is  
&lt;Response&gt;

</div>

Specifically we use the instruction template above for the DAT task on LLM. Below we provide some examples of words and options:

<div style="border: 1px solid #777; padding: 0.6em 1em; margin: 1em 0;">

Example 1:  
&lt;Words&gt;: Guitar Amplifier Strings Pick Melody Chord Song Musician Concert  
&lt;Options&gt;: A.studio B.hat C.piano D.umbrella

</div>

<div style="border: 1px solid #777; padding: 0.6em 1em; margin: 1em 0;">

Example 2:  
&lt;Words&gt;: Guitar Amplifier Strings Pick Melody Chord Song Musician Concert  
&lt;Options&gt;: A.flame B.orange C.diamond D.earth

</div>

<div style="border: 1px solid #777; padding: 0.6em 1em; margin: 1em 0;">

Example 3:  
&lt;Words&gt;: Soccer Amplifier Marathon Surfing Volleyball Basketball Carrot Running Yoga  
&lt;Options&gt;: A.canvas B.wire C.volcano D.bracelet

</div>

<div style="border: 1px solid #777; padding: 0.6em 1em; margin: 1em 0;">

Example 4:  
&lt;Words&gt;: Pepper Zucchini Eggplant Surfing Garlic Potato Carrot Bean Gymnastics  
&lt;Options&gt;: A.drill B.bee C.hourglass D.brick

</div>

<div style="border: 1px solid #777; padding: 0.6em 1em; margin: 1em 0;">

Example 5:  
&lt;Words&gt;: Decaf Pastry Brew Roast Forest Outdoors Compass Bean Backpack  
&lt;Options&gt;: A.cake B.whip C.space D.river

</div>
