Wang. Hybrid multimodal fusion for humor detection. In *Proceedings of the 3rd International on Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Workshop and Challenge*, pages 15–21, 2022.

[54] Chengxin Chen and Pengyuan Zhang. Integrating cross-modal interactions via latent representation shift for multimodal humor detection. In *Proceedings of the 3rd International on Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Workshop and Challenge*, pages 23–28, 2022.

[55] Vijay Kumar, Ranjeet Walia, and Shivam Sharma. Deephumor: a novel deep learning framework for humor detection. *Multimedia Tools and Applications*, 81(12):16797–16812, 2022.

[56] Jiaming Wu, Hongfei Lin, Liang Yang, and Bo Xu. Mumor: A multimodal dataset for humor detection in conversations. In *Natural Language Processing and Chinese Computing: 10th CCF International Conference, NLPCC 2021, Qingdao, China, October 13–17, 2021, Proceedings, Part I 10*, pages 619–627. Springer, 2021.

[57] Dan Ofer and Dafna Shahaf. Cards against ai: Predicting humor in a fill-in-the-blank party game. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.13016*, 2022.

[58] Binzhu Xie, Sicheng Zhang, Zitang Zhou, Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Jack Hessel, Jingkang Yang, and Ziwei Liu. Funqa: Towards surprising video comprehension. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.14899*, 2023. 3

[59] EunJeong Hwang and Vered Shwartz. Memecap: A dataset for captioning and interpreting memes. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13703*, 2023.

[60] Jonathan B Evans, Jerel E Slaughter, Aleksander PJ Ellis, and Jessi M Rivin. Gender and the evaluation of humor at work. *Journal of Applied Psychology*, 104(8):1077, 2019.

[61] Camilla Vásquez and Erhan Aslan. “cats be outside, how about meow”: Multimodal humor and creativity in an internet meme. *Journal of Pragmatics*, 171:101–117, 2021. 3

[62] Runjia Li, Shuyang Sun, Mohamed Elhoseiny, and Philip Torr. Oxfordtvq-hic: Can machine make humorous captions from images? In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision*, pages 20293–20303, 2023. 3

[63] Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. A survey on approaches to computational humor generation. In *Proceedings of The 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, pages 29–41, 2020.

[64] Hang Zhang, Dayiheng Liu, Jiancheng Lv, and Cheng Luo. Let’s be humorous: Knowledge enhanced humor generation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.13317*, 2020.

[65] Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, Tanvir Sajed, and Henry Kautz. Stimulating creativity with funlines: A case study of humor generation in headlines. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.02031*, 2020.

[66] Alessandro Valitutti, Hannu Toivonen, Antoine Doucet, and Jukka M Toivanen. “let everything turn well in your wife”: generation of adult humor using lexical constraints. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 243–248, 2013.

[67] Tanishq Chaudhary, Mayank Goel, and Radhika Mamidi. Towards conversational humor analysis and design. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.00536*, 2021. 3

[68] Olga Popova and Petra Dadić. Does ai have a sense of humor? clef 2023 joker tasks 1, 2 and 3: using bloom, gpt, simplet5, and more for pun detection, location, interpretation and translation. *Proceedings of the Working Notes of CLEF*, 2023. 3

[69] Dushyant Singh Chauhan, Gopendra Vikram Singh, Asif Ekbal, and Pushpak Bhattacharyya. Mhadig: A multilingual humor-aided multiparty dialogue generation in multimodal conversational setting. *Knowledge-Based Systems*, 278:110840, 2023. 3

[70] Shraman Pramanick, Aniket Roy, and Vishal M Patel. Multimodal learning using optimal transport for sarcasm and humor detection. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision*, pages 3930–3940, 2022. 3

[71] Jie Huang and Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang. Towards reasoning in large language models: A survey. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.10403*, 2022. 3

[72] OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report, 2023. 4, 6, 7

[73] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.09685*, 2021. 4, 5, 20, 29

[74] Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Hoi. Blip-2: Bootstrapping language-image pre-training with frozen image encoders and large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.12597*, 2023. 5, 6

[75] Zhengxiao Du, Yujie Qian, Xiao Liu, Ming Ding, Jiezhong Qiu, Zhilin Yang, and Jie Tang. Glm: General language model pretraining with autoregressive blank infilling. In *Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 320–335, 2022. 6, 7

[76] Ryuichiro Hataya, Han Bao, and Hiromi Arai. Will large-scale generative models corrupt future datasets? In *ICCV*, 2023. 6, 27

[77] Ilia Shumailov, Zakhar Shumaylov, Yiren Zhao, Yarin Gal, Nicolas Papernot, and Ross Anderson. Model dementia: Generated data makes models forget. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.17493*, 2023. 6, 27

[78] Wenliang Dai, Junnan Li, and et al. Instructblip: Towards general-purpose vision-language models with instruction tuning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.06500*, 2023. 7

[79] Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Liangyu Chen, Jinghao Wang, Jingkang Yang, and Ziwei Liu. Otter: A multi-modal model with in-context instruction tuning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.03726*, 2023. 7

[80] Baichuan. Baichuan 2: Open large-scale language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.10305*, 2023. 7

[81] Jack Hessel, Ana Marasović, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi.
