[29] Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Wenmeng Yu, Wenyi Hong, Ji Qi, Yan Wang, Junhui Ji, Zhuoyi Yang, Lei Zhao, Xixuan Song, Jiazheng Xu, Bin Xu, Juanzi Li, Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding, and Jie Tang. Cogvlm: Visual expert for pretrained language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv: 2311.03079*, 2023. 2, 3, 7, 16

[30] JungMi Lee. Mental leap. In Norbert M. Seel, editor, *Encyclopedia of the Sciences of Learning*, pages 2194–2194, Boston, MA, 2012. Springer US. 3, 4, 5

[31] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*, pages 10684–10695, 2022. 3, 8, 24

[32] Lvmin Zhang, Anyi Rao, and Maneesh Agrawala. Adding conditional control to text-to-image diffusion models. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision*, pages 3836–3847, 2023. 8, 24

[33] Jay A Olson, Johnny Nahas, Denis Chmoulevitch, Simon J Cropper, and Margaret E Webb. Naming unrelated words predicts creativity. *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences*, 118(25):e2022340118, 2021. 3, 8, 2, 25

[34] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Yuheng Li, and Yong Jae Lee. Improved baselines with visual instruction tuning, 2023. 3, 6

[35] Jun Chen, Deyao Zhu, Xiaoqian Shen, Xiang Li, Zechu Liu, Pengchuan Zhang, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Vikas Chandra, Yunyang Xiong, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. Minigpt-v2: large language model as a unified interface for vision-language multi-task learning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.09478*, 2023. 3, 6

[36] Xiaoying Xing, Mingfu Liang, and Ying Wu. TOA: Task-oriented active VQA. In *Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems*, 2023. 3

[37] Zhan Ling, Yunhao Fang, Xuanlin Li, Tongzhou Mu, Mingu Lee, Reza Pourreza, Roland Memisevic, and Hao Su. Unleashing the creative mind: Language model as hierarchical policy for improved exploration on challenging problem solving. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.00694*, 2023. 3

[38] Douglas Summers-Stay, Clare R Voss, and Stephanie M Lukin. Brainstorm, then select: a generative language model improves its creativity score. In *The AAAI-23 Workshop on Creative AI Across Modalities*, 2023.

[39] Yuqian Sun, Xingyu Li, Jun Peng, and Ze Gao. Inspire creativity with oriba: Transform artists’ original characters into chatbots through large language model. In *Adjunct Proceedings of the 2023 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing & the 2023 ACM International Symposium on Wearable Computing*, pages 78–82, 2023.

[40] Bhavya Bhavya, Jinju Xiong, and Chengxiang Zhai. Cam: A large language model-based creative analogy mining framework. In *Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023*, pages 3903–3914, 2023. 3

[41] Hyeonsu B Kang, Xin Qian, Tom Hope, Dafna Shahaf, Joel Chan, and Aniket Kittur. Augmenting scientific creativity with an analogical search engine. *ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction*, 29(6):1–36, 2022. 3

[42] Tom Hope, Ronen Tamari, Daniel Hershcovich, Hyeonsu B Kang, Joel Chan, Aniket Kittur, and Dafna Shahaf. Scaling creative inspiration with fine-grained functional aspects of ideas. In *Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems*, pages 1–15, 2022.

[43] Senwei Liang, Zhongzhan Huang, and Hong Zhang. Stiffness-aware neural network for learning hamiltonian systems. In *International Conference on Learning Representations*, 2021.

[44] Zhongzhan Huang, Senwei Liang, Hong Zhang, Haizhao Yang, and Liang Lin. On fast simulation of dynamical system with neural vector enhanced numerical solver. *Scientific Reports*, 13(1):15254, 2023. 3

[45] Ben Swanson, Kory Mathewson, Ben Pietrzak, Sherol Chen, and Monica Dinalescu. Story centaur: Large language model few shot learning as a creative writing tool. In *Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations*, pages 244–256, 2021. 3

[46] Tuhin Chakrabarty, Vishakh Padmakumar, and He He. Help me write a poem: Instruction tuning as a vehicle for collaborative poetry writing. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.13669*, 2022.

[47] Tongshuang Wu, Ellen Jiang, Aaron Donsbach, Jeff Gray, Alejandra Molina, Michael Terry, and Carrie J Cai. Promptchainer: Chaining large language model prompts through visual programming. In *CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems Extended Abstracts*, pages 1–10, 2022.

[48] Piotr Mirowski, Kory W Mathewson, Jaylen Pittman, and Richard Evans. Co-writing screenplays and theatre scripts with language models: Evaluation by industry professionals. In *Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems*, pages 1–34, 2023.

[49] Hai Dang, Sven Goller, Florian Lehmann, and Daniel Buschek. Choice over control: How users write with large language models using diegetic and non-diegetic prompting. In *Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems*, pages 1–17, 2023. 3

[50] Kim Binsted, Anton Nijholt, Oliviero Stock, Carlo Strapparava, G Ritchie, R Manurung, H Pain, Annalu Waller, and D O’Mara. Computational humor. *IEEE intelligent systems*, 21(2):59–69, 2006. 3

[51] Dafna Shahaf, Eric Horvitz, and Robert Mankoff. Inside jokes: Identifying humorous cartoon captions. In *Proceedings of the 21th ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining*, pages 1065–1074, 2015. 3

[52] Kohtaro Tanaka, Hiroaki Yamane, Yusuke Mori, Yusuke Mukuta, and Tatsuya Harada. Learning to evaluate humor in memes based on the incongruity theory. In *Proceedings of the Second Workshop on When Creative AI Meets Conversational AI*, pages 81–93, 2022.

[53] Haojie Xu, Weifeng Liu, Jiangwei Liu, Mingzheng Li, Yu Feng, Yasi Peng, Yunwei Shi, Xiao Sun, and Meng
