### C.2. The Diversity Responses of Oogiri Game by LLMs

To illustrate the creativity of CLoT, we present the diverse responses of Qwen-VL$_{+\mathrm{CLoT}}$ on the same Oogiri game samples, as depicted in Fig. 12. In order to impartially showcase CLoT’s creativity, we opt for Chinese Oogiri which has a moderate dataset size in Oogiri-GO, as the limited dataset of English Oogiri may fail to fully capture the advantages of CLoT, and the largest dataset of Japanese Oogiri may overly emphasize CLoT’s strengths. To facilitate comprehension for readers of different languages, Fig. 12 simultaneously displays the English translations of the Chinese Oogiri responses. However, due to cultural factors and other constraints, the translated content may not entirely convey the intended meaning of the Chinese Oogiri responses. Nevertheless, the diversity of responses in Fig. 12 underscores CLoT’s ability to engage in divergent thinking and approach challenges from multiple perspectives, showcasing its capacity to think outside the box.

[Figure: Four Chinese Oogiri examples with images on the left and five Chinese responses with English translations on the right.]

[Image: cat outdoors standing with one paw raised]

(1) 你又想偷吃我的猫粮！  
@ You're trying to sneak a bite of my cat food again, aren't you?

(2) 在路边被一车子压扁之后......  
@ After getting squashed by a car on the roadside...

(3) 猫版大鹏展翅。  
@ The cat's version of a majestic spread of wings, like a giant roc  
taking flight.

(4) 你这猫也太会摆姿势了吧！  
@ Oh, your cat really knows how to strike a pose!

(5) 早上好！今天我来教你如何用爪子打招呼。  
@ Good morning! Today, I'll teach you how to greet with a pawshake.

---

[Image: eagle carrying or lifting a cheetah in a field]

(1) 猎豹扑向鹰的瞬间被鹰带飞。  
@ The moment the cheetah pounced, it got scooped up by the eagle  
and taken for a ride.

(2) 别追了，我已经把你的孩子叼走了。  
@ Stop chasing me. I've already grabbed your kid.

(3) 你先别飞，我还有话要说。  
@ Don't take off just yet; I've got something to say.

(4) 客官你还没付钱！  
@ Hey, you haven't paid yet, sir!

(5) 每次做坏事都要替你擦屁股。  
@ I always have to clean up after you every time you mess up.

---

[Image: two cats partly hidden behind furniture in a room]

(1) 终于知道为什么他俩不说话了。  
@ Finally figured out why those two aren't barking.

(2) 你俩是不是又把家具都拆了。  
@ Did you two go and take apart all the furniture again?

(3) 不让你们吃巧克力，就只能这样了。  
@ If I can't let you have chocolate, this is the only option.

(4) 最近又胖了。  
@ We've packed on some pounds again lately.

(5) 说好的一起藏猫猫呢?  
@ We're all hidden and waiting, but you haven't come to find us yet!

---

[Image: cat in a moving vehicle with mouth open]

(1) 什么?! 现在要去宠物医院做绝育手术?  
@ What?! Going to the pet hospital now for a neutering surgery!?

(2) 哇，真的有条大鱼！  
@ Wow, that's a really big fish!

(3) 司机师傅，快看路啊！  
@ Hey driver, watch the road! Hurry up!

(4) 安全带是系在脖子上的吗?  
@ Is the seatbelt supposed to be fastened around the neck?

(5) 快！追上前面那辆车！  
@ Hurry! Catch up with the car in front!

Figure 12. The diversity responses of proposed Creative Leap-of-Thought. “@” denotes English translations.
