is from the nouns of ground truth response, and the candidate options of instruction for ranking are from the Oogiri data with multiple answers. Besides, we illustrate the instructions for selection taking 3T1 selection as an example. For other types of selection instructions, only minor modifications to the number of options and quantifiers are needed.

We set the number of original instruction templates for each task to three. This decision is rooted in the precise requirements of the three tasks in Oogiri-GO, which is that we aim for LLMs to generate unexpected and humorous content based on given images or texts. Consequently, a large number of prompts is unnecessary for robust generalization across these tasks and our experiments support this observation. In the Image to Text task, we compare the effects of using three and fifty prompt templates and the fifty prompt templates are obtained by rewriting the original three templates using Qwen-14B [5]. The experimental results demonstrate that the number of prompt templates does not significantly impact the performance of LLMs.

**Instruction Templates of Text to Text.** Instruction templates for Text to Text are very similar to those for Image to Text, and can also be categorized into the following four types:

> **Original Instruction**  
> Please carefully understand the provided question and come up with a surprising and humorous response.  
> Question: \<Question\>  
> Let’s think outside the box. A satisfactory response is  
> \<Response\>
>
> **Instruction with Condition**  
> Please carefully understand the question and give an answer that contains conditional words and is surprising and funny.  
> Question: \<Question\>  
> Let’s think outside the box. A surprising and funny answer containing conditional word is  
> Condition: \<Condition\>  
> \<Response\>
>
> **Instruction for Ranking**  
> Please evaluate the degree of unexpected and humorous effect when each of the option contents is combined with the question.  
> Question: \<Question\>  
> Options:  
> A. \<Content A\>  
> B. \<Content B\>  
> C. \<Content C\>  
> D. \<Content D\>  
> E. \<Content E\>  
> Response Format: Please respond in the format of ranking the humorousness of the options from high to low, for example, “1. A. xxx. 2. B. xxx. 3. C. xxx. 4. D. xxx. 5. E. xxx.”. Be sure to rank all five options.  
> Let’s think outside the box. The result of ranking the options from most surprising and funny to least is  
> \<Response\>
>
> **Instruction for 3T1 Selection**  
> Please select the option that, when combined with the question, creates an unexpected and humorous effect. Only one option meets the requirements.  
> Question: \<Question\>  
> Options:  
> A. \<Content A\>  
> B. \<Content B\>  
> C. \<Content C\>
