that one-round self-refinement effectively utilizes the existing diversity in $\mathcal{S}$ and creative data. Consequently, multiple rounds of self-refinement do not yield a significant performance boost, as one-round already achieves satisfactory performance.

**G.2. Self-Refinement doesn’t Cause a Performance Collapse in CLoT**

During the training of large language models, there is a phenomenon known as “Performance Collapse” [76, 77] while using the LLM-generated data. Specifically, due to the impressive performance of these models and their widespread use by various users, the Internet is now flooded with a vast amount of text generated by large language models, including answers, conversations, chat records, and more. Despite the generated text appearing close to those generated by human, it has irreversibly polluted Internet text data [76, 77]. This pollution is expected to result in a performance decline when large language models are retrained in the future to update parameters. The generated data from the Internet often exhibits similar patterns or implicit characteristics. Continuously feeding self-generated data to large language models [76, 77], i.e., self-refinement, leads to an accumulation of similar data during training, restricting the diversity of model outputs and ultimately causing “Performance Collapse”.

However, for CLoT, the proposed **“Explorative Self-Refinement” stage does not lead to “Performance Collapse”**. This is because, (1) during this stage, the generated data is produced under the constraints of various weak-associated conditions, ensuring diversity and alleviating the issue of similar patterns; (2) in the “Explorative Self-Refinement” stage, the generated data undergoes rigorous filtering through the discrimination ability by tuned LLM during the “Associable Instruction Tuning” stage. This process ensures that the generated data is of high quality and mitigates the potential risk of “Performance Collapse”. These two mechanisms provide effective safeguards for CLoT when enhancing the LoT capability of LLM. Experimental results in the main text empirically demonstrate that “Explorative Self-Refinement” does not impact model performance and significantly promotes the Leap-of-Thought ability of the model.
