## E.5. The Details of User Study

We conduct a user preference study to directly verify the creativity of LLMs. Fig. 24 is the questionnaire homepage of user study where users can select the preferred language of questionnaire. Subsequently, we present choice questions in the preferred language based on user selections, and ask users to choose the most creative and humorous responses as shown in Fig. 25. Here we select six advanced LLMs to generate responses for a total of eighteen questions across three tasks (IT2T, I2T and T2T), and the six responses from six distinct LLMs are randomly permuted in options.

We conduct an extensive survey through the online survey platform[^6], ultimately collecting 154 valid questionnaires with 2772 votes. Within these collected questionnaires, we can calculate the proportion of times each LLM is selected for each question, as illustrated in Fig. 25 (bottom). Finally, we aggregate the total number of times each LLM is chosen across all Oogiri samples. The ratio of this sum to the overall number of selections among all LLMs signifies the user preference for each LLM.

[Figure: Screenshot of questionnaire homepage. Readable text: “Picking the Most Creative & Humorous Options”; “* 1. Please choose your preferred language.” Options: “English”, “日本語”, “中文”.]

Figure 24. The questionnaire homepage of user study.

[Figure: Questionnaire examples of user study. Left example title: “Examine the content of the image and choose the option that, when paired with the image, exhibits the utmost creativity and elicits the most humor.” Options: “(1) Why do elderly individuals often forget to eat? Because they are too old, and their memory is not as sharp.”; “(2) What on earth happened to this dish? It tastes awful!”; “(3) Why does this breakfast seem like yesterday’s leftovers? It’s like even the food can’t be bothered to switch things up!”; “(4) My wife cut my hair!”; “(5) Why does he hold his head? Because he forgets what to eat this morning!”; “(6) Old man’s face looks like a pizza and he is looking forward to eating it, and the dish is in front of him.” Left bar chart labels and percentages: Qwen-VL (1) 7.6%; Qwen-VL+AIT (2) 36.7%; GPT4v (3) 8.9%; Qwen-VL+CLoT (4) 39.2%; Qwen-VL+CoT (5) 6.3%; MiniGPT-v2 (6) 1.3%. Right example title in Chinese: “请阅读图片内容，并选出一个和图片搭配之后最具创造力和最让人觉得搞笑的选项。” Options: “(1) 一个年轻人坐在地上，双手捧着热狗，正在吃着热狗。”; “(2) 被狗咬了，但只能吃热狗泄愤。”; “(3) 一个男人和一只狗正在进行一场盛大的美食盛宴。”; “(4) 一个年轻人在哭泣，被两个热狗抓住，而一只狗正在他的脚下咆哮。”; “(5) 虽然被狗咬了，但还是在吃热狗。”; “(6) 看起来狗狗也想尝尝这款新推出的‘热狗口味热狗’!” Right bar chart labels and percentages: MiniGPT-v2 (1) 3.8%; Qwen-VL+CLoT (2) 51.9%; Qwen-VL+CoT (3) 6.3%; Qwen-VL (4) 2.5%; Qwen-VL+AIT (5) 24.1%; GPT4v (6) 11.4%.]

Figure 25. The questionnaire examples of user study.

[^6]: https://www.wjx.cn
