| Data Source | Com. | Per. | Exa. | Pun. | Sar. | Sil. | Sur. | Dar. | N/A |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| *Happiness and Cyanide* | 13 | 7 | 28 | 95 | 7 | 58 | 145 | 42 | 5 |
| *Peanuts* | 8 | 76 | 92 | 9 | 22 | 87 | 96 | 2 | 8 |
| *Garfield* | 7 | 131 | 43 | 5 | 59 | 85 | 69 | 1 | 0 |
| *XKCD* | 44 | 5 | 46 | 20 | 30 | 130 | 98 | 11 | 16 |
| *PhD Comics* | 59 | 4 | 104 | 20 | 39 | 56 | 116 | 1 | 1 |
| *They Can Talk* | 13 | 336 | 2 | 1 | 4 | 17 | 25 | 1 | 1 |
| *SMBC* | 47 | 14 | 81 | 14 | 13 | 97 | 106 | 26 | 2 |

Table 12: Breakdown of PixelHumor dataset by data source and humor types. **Com.**: *Comparison*, **Per.**: *Personification*, **Exa.**: *Exaggeration*, **Pun.**: *Pun*, **Sar.**: *Sarcasm*, **Sil.**: *Silliness*, **Sur.**: *Surprise*, **Dar.**: *Dark*, **N/A**: *Not Applicable*.

### Prompts for Humor Classification Task

**System prompt:** *You are a humorous assistant that understands comics. You will be given comics and your task is to evaluate the comics.*

**Question 5:** *Which humor styles best describe the comic? Here are some guidelines for each humor style.*

**Comparison:** *This comic compares two or more objects/ideas to reference the differences or similarities. This comic is funny because of this comparison.*

**Personification:** *This comic has at least one animal/creature/plant that acts like a human (talking, running on two legs etc.). This comic is funny because of this personified creature/plant.*

**Exaggeration:** *This comic attempts to exaggerate (overemphasize or magnify) something out of proportion. This comic is funny because of this exaggeration/absurdity.*

**Pun:** *This comic is funny because of the linguistic elements. Linguistic elements include: uncommon uses of language, double-meanings in phrases or words etc.*

**Sarcasm:** *This comic expresses an idea/thought that is not the real intention of the character/comic. This comic is funny because of the sarcasm present.*

**Silliness:** *There are elements in the comic which are absurd and/or ridiculous. The characters are or did something foolish. This comic is funny because of the silly elements.*

**Surprise:** *There was a twist in the narrative or an unexpected element in the comic. This comic is funny because of the twist or unexpected elements.*

**Dark:** *There are potentially sensitive, taboo or ideas that violate the norm in this comic where if taken out of context in this comic, might be offensive to others. This comic is because of these benign violations or the dark humor present.*

*You may select multiple humor styles but output only the humor styles “Comparison”, “Personification”, “Exaggeration”, “Pun”, “Sarcasm”, “Silliness”, “Surprise” or “Dark”.*

### Prompts for Humor Interpretation Task

**System prompt:** *You are a humorous assistant that understands comics. You will be given comics and your task is to evaluate the comics.*

**Question 6:** *Explain why this comic is funny or not funny in 3 sentences.*

### Prompts for Sequence Recognition Task

**System prompt:** *You are a humorous assistant that understands comics. You will be given comics and your task is to evaluate the comics.*

**Question 7:** *In what order should the panels be read? Respond with the panel numbers only. Write the panel numbers followed by a comma. For example the answer “3,4,2,1” will mean that panels will be read in order of panel 3, then panel 4, then panel 2 and finally panel 1.*

**Question 8:** *For each panel, what are the text inside? Respond as {panel_number}: {text_within_panel}.*

## F Quantitative Error Analysis

We have also conducted a structured, quantitative error analysis by (i) providing confusion matrices for humor style classification across models, and (ii) presenting F1 score breakdowns across five reasoning tasks, segmented by humor style and number of comic panels. These allow us to identify patterns in model reasoning failures, for instance, sarcasm and surreal humor consistently present challenges across models, and performance tends to degrade as panel count increases. This deeper diagnostic view supports targeted directions for future work, such as better context modeling and culturally-informed reasoning modules.

Table 13 presents the confusion matrix for humor style classification task for each model. From the confusion matrix, we can see that models classified each of the comics to have multiple humor styles according to Table 4 predicted larger amount of False Positive classification, which lead to a lower
