Table 18: Case study 3 on an XKCD comic, access at https://xkcd.com/473/. Incorrect recognitions are marked in <span style="color:red">red</span>.

<table>
<tr>
<td colspan="4">[Figure: four-panel XKCD comic shown left-to-right with red labels <span style="color:red">2</span>, <span style="color:red">1</span>, <span style="color:red">4</span>, <span style="color:red">3</span>. Panel 2 text: “SHE THREW ME OUT YELLING, ‘YOU DON’T SAY THOSE WORDS.’ ‘NOT IN THIS HOUSE.’” Panel 1 text: “IT’S BEEN TWO YEARS. I THOUGHT THE WOUNDS HAD HEALED.” Panel 4 text: “BUT I STAND BY WHAT I SAID.” Panel 3 text: “PLUTO NEVER SHOULD HAVE BEEN A PLANET.”]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Model</th>
<th>Sequence<br>Identifica-<br>tion</th>
<th>Text Identification</th>
<th>Interpretation</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Groundtruth</td>
<td>2,1,4,3</td>
<td>2: SHE THREW ME OUT YELLING,<br>"YOU DON’T SAY THOSE WORDS.<br>"NOT IN THIS HOUSE." 1: IT’S<br>BEEN TWO YEARS. I THOUGHT<br>THE WOUNDS HAD HEALED. 4:<br>BUT I STAND BY WHAT I SAID.<br>3: PLUTO NEVER SHOULD HAVE<br>BEEN A PLANET.</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>GPT-4o</td>
<td><span style="color:red">1,2,3,4</span></td>
<td>1: It’s been two years. I thought the<br>wounds had healed. 2: She threw me out<br>yelling, "You don’t say those words."<br>"Not in this house." 3: Pluto never<br>should have been a planet. 4: But I stand<br>by what I said.</td>
<td>This comic is funny because it humor-<br>ously exaggerates the emotional fallout<br>from a scientific debate about Pluto’s<br>planetary status. The dramatic setup,<br>akin to a personal or familial conflict,<br>contrasts with the seemingly trivial na-<br>ture of the argument over Pluto. The<br>punchline reveals the absurdity of being<br>thrown out of a house over an astronom-<br>ical opinion, highlighting the humor in<br>taking such a stance too seriously.<br>Score: [6,6]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gemini-1.5-Pro</td>
<td>2,1,4,3</td>
<td>1: IT’S BEEN TWO YEARS. I<br>THOUGHT THE WOUNDS HAD<br>HEALED. 2: <span style="color:red">HE</span> THREW ME OUT<br>YELLING, "YOU DON’T SAY THOSE<br>WORDS. "NOT IN THIS HOUSE."<br>3: PLUTO NEVER SHOULD HAVE<br>BEEN A PLANET. 4: BUT I STAND<br>BY WHAT I SAID.</td>
<td>This comic is funny because it highlights<br>the stubbornness of people and their un-<br>willingness to admit they’re wrong, even<br>after a long time. The visual gag of the<br>character remaining in the same position<br>outside the house for two years adds to<br>the humor. The absurdity of the situa-<br>tion, particularly the final panel’s non-<br>sequitur about Pluto, elevates the comic<br>further.<br>Score: [1,2]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Qwen2-VL 72B</td>
<td><span style="color:red">1,2,3,4</span></td>
<td>1: IT’S BEEN TWO YEARS. 2: SHE<br>THREW ME OUT, YELLING, "YOU<br>DON’T SAY THOSE WORDS." "NOT<br>IN THIS HOUSE." <span style="color:red">3:</span> BUT I STAND<br>BY WHAT I SAID. <span style="color:red">4:</span> PLUTO NEVER<br>SHOULD HAVE BEEN A PLANET.</td>
<td>This comic is funny because it plays<br>on the absurdity of the situation. The<br>first panel sets up a serious and dramatic<br>tone, suggesting a deep familial conflict.<br>However, the punchline in the last panel<br>reveals that the argument was over the<br>demotion of Pluto from planet status,<br>which is a trivial and unexpected topic<br>for such a heated argument. The contrast<br>between the serious setup and the silly<br>resolution creates a humorous effect.<br>Score: [7,7]</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Continued on next page*
