Table 18: Case study 3 on an XKCD comic, access at https://xkcd.com/473/. Incorrect recognitions are marked in <span style="color:red">red</span>.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="4">[Figure: Four-panel XKCD comic with red sequence labels 2, 1, 4, 3. Panel labeled 2: “SHE THREW ME OUT YELLING, ‘YOU DON’T SAY THOSE WORDS.’ ‘NOT IN THIS HOUSE.’” Panel labeled 1: “IT’S BEEN TWO YEARS. I THOUGHT THE WOUNDS HAD HEALED.” Panel labeled 4: “BUT I STAND BY WHAT I SAID.” Panel labeled 3: “PLUTO NEVER SHOULD HAVE BEEN A PLANET.”]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Model</th>
    <th>Sequence<br>Identifica-<br>tion</th>
    <th>Text Identification</th>
    <th>Interpretation</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Groundtruth</td>
    <td>2,1,4,3</td>
    <td>2: SHE THREW ME OUT YELLING, "YOU DON’T SAY THOSE WORDS." "NOT IN THIS HOUSE." 1: IT’S BEEN TWO YEARS. I THOUGHT THE WOUNDS HAD HEALED. 4: BUT I STAND BY WHAT I SAID. 3: PLUTO NEVER SHOULD HAVE BEEN A PLANET.</td>
    <td>-</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Gemma3 27B</td>
    <td><span style="color:red">1,2,3,4</span></td>
    <td>1: IT’S BEEN TWO YEARS. I THOUGHT THE WOUNDS HAD HEALED. 2: SHE THREW ME OUT YELLING, "YOU DON’T SAY THOSE WORDS." "NOT IN THIS HOUSE." 3: <span style="color:red">AUTO</span> NEVER SHOULD HAVE BEEN A PLANET. 4: BUT I STAND BY WHAT I SAID.</td>
    <td>Alright, let’s dissect this xkcd gem! This comic is funny because it takes a dramatic, relationship-ending argument (You don’t say those words! Not in this house!) and then *completely* undercuts it with a bizarre, non-sequitur declaration about Pluto’s planetary status. The escalation from domestic dispute to astronomical opinion is so unexpected and absurd that it lands as a delightfully nerdy punchline, and the visual of the aftermath just adds to the chaotic energy. It’s a perfect example of xkcd’s signature blend of relatable situations and delightfully strange tangents.<br>Score: [7,7]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>LLaVA-OV 7B</td>
    <td>2,1,4,3</td>
    <td>2: <span style="color:red">HE</span> THREW ME OUT YELLING, "YOU DON’T SAY THOSE WORDS!" NOT IN THIS HOUSE. <span style="color:red">3: BUT I STAND BY WHAT I SAID.</span> 4: BUT I STAND BY WHAT I SAID.</td>
    <td>The comic is funny because it plays on the idea of a person who has been hurt by someone else’s words, but then realizes that they have been using those same words to hurt others. The humor comes from the irony of the situation and the unexpected twist at the end. However, some people may not find it funny if they do not understand the context or if they have experienced similar situations in their own lives.<br>Score: [1,1]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Qwen2-VL 7B</td>
    <td>2,1,4,3</td>
    <td>1: It’s been two years. 2: She threw me out yelling, "You don’t say those words." "Not in this house." 3: Pluto never should have been a planet. 4: But I stand by what I said.</td>
    <td>This comic is funny because it uses a series of panels to depict a humorous and relatable situation. The first panel sets up the premise, and the subsequent panels build on it with increasingly absurd and exaggerated actions. The final panel, which shows the character being thrown out of a house, is the punchline that ties everything together in a humorous way. The use of simple, stick-figure drawings and minimal text also adds to the humor by making the situation seem more absurd and exaggerated.<br>Score: [4,4]</td>
  </tr>
</table>
