Table 17: Case study 2 on an XKCD comic, access at https://xkcd.com/209/. Incorrect recognitions are marked in <span style="color:red">red</span>.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="4">[Figure: XKCD comic strip with four panels labeled in red 1, 3, 2, 4. Readable text includes: “COME EXPLORE THE FUTURE WITH ME!”, “HUH? WHAT’S THAT YOU’RE IN?”, “TWO-SEAT KAYAK!”, “I SEE, BUT WHY DO YOU HAVE IT?”, “WE’LL FIND OUT! THE FUTURE IS A BIG PLACE!”, “SO THE KAYAK TRAVELS THROUGH TIME?”, “SURE! JUST LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE! IT ALSO GOES OVER WATER. COME ON!”]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Model</th>
    <th>Sequence<br>Identifica-<br>tion</th>
    <th>Text Identification</th>
    <th>Interpretation</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Groundtruth</td>
    <td>1,3,2,4</td>
    <td>1: COME EXPLORE THE FUTURE WITH ME! HUH? WHAT’S THAT YOU’RE IN? 3: TWO-SEAT KAYAK! I SEE, BUT WHY DO YOU HAVE IT? 2: WE’LL FIND OUT! THE FUTURE IS A BIG PLACE! SO THE KAYAK TRAVELS THROUGH TIME? 4: SURE! JUST LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE! IT ALSO GOES OVER WATER. COME ON!</td>
    <td>-</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>GPT-4o</td>
    <td>1,3,2,4</td>
    <td>1: COME EXPLORE THE FUTURE WITH ME! <span style="color:red">2:</span> HUH? WHAT’S THAT YOU’RE IN? 3: TWO-SEAT KAYAK! <span style="color:red">4:</span> I SEE, BUT WHY DO YOU HAVE IT? <span style="color:red">5:</span> WE’LL FIND OUT! THE FUTURE IS A BIG PLACE! <span style="color:red">6:</span> SO THE KAYAK TRAVELS THROUGH TIME? <span style="color:red">7:</span> SURE! JUST LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE! IT ALSO GOES OVER WATER. COME ON!</td>
    <td>This comic is funny because it plays on the literal interpretation of exploring the future with a mundane object, a two-seat kayak. The humor lies in the absurdity of using a kayak, which travels over water, as a metaphor for time travel. The punchline cleverly highlights the character’s enthusiasm and the unexpected twist of exploring the future in such an ordinary way.<br>Score: [3,1]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Gemini-1.5-Pro</td>
    <td><span style="color:red">4,2,3,1</span></td>
    <td><span style="color:red">1:</span> COME EXPLORE THE FUTURE WITH ME! HUH? WHAT’S THAT YOU’RE IN? <span style="color:red">2:</span> A TWO-SEAT KAYAK! I SEE, BUT WHY DO YOU HAVE IT? <span style="color:red">3:</span> WE’LL FIND OUT! THE FUTURE IS A BIG PLACE! SO THE KAYAK TRAVELS THROUGH TIME? <span style="color:red">4:</span> SURE! JUST LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE! IT ALSO GOES OVER WATER. COME ON!</td>
    <td>This comic is funny because of the absurd premise of using a kayak to travel through time. The straight-faced delivery of the first character, despite the obvious lack of logic, adds to the humor. Finally, the second character’s acceptance of this flawed logic makes the situation even more ridiculous and funny.<br>Score: [1,1]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Qwen2-VL 72B</td>
    <td><span style="color:red">1,2,3,4</span></td>
    <td>1: COME EXPLORE THE FUTURE WITH ME! <span style="color:red">2:</span> HUH? WHAT’S THAT YOU’RE IN? 3: A TWO-SEAT KAYAK! <span style="color:red">4:</span> I SEE, BUT WHY DO YOU HAVE IT? <span style="color:red">5:</span> WE’LL FIND OUT! THE FUTURE IS A BIG PLACE! <span style="color:red">6:</span> SO THE KAYAK TRAVELS THROUGH TIME? <span style="color:red">7:</span> SURE! JUST LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE! IT ALSO GOES OVER WATER. COME ON!</td>
    <td>This comic is funny because it plays on the idea of exploring the future, which is typically associated with time travel. The punchline reveals that the "future" the character is referring to is actually just a kayak trip, which is a clever and unexpected twist. The humor comes from the contrast between the grandiose idea of exploring the future and the mundane reality of a kayak ride.<br>Score: [3,6]</td>
  </tr>
</table>

*Continued on next page*
