Yupeng Chang, Xu Wang, Jindong Wang, Yuan Wu, Linyi Yang, Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, Xiaoyuan Yi, Cunxiang Wang, Yidong Wang, et al. 2024. A survey on evaluation of large language models. *ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology*, 15(3):1–45.

Lei Chen and Chong Min Lee. 2017. Predicting audience’s laughter during presentations using convolutional neural network. In *Proceedings of the 12th Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications*, pages 86–90, Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yuyan Chen, Yichen Yuan, Panjun Liu, Dayiheng Liu, Qinghao Guan, Mengfei Guo, Haiming Peng, Bang Liu, Zhixu Li, and Yanghua Xiao. 2024. Talk funny! a large-scale humor response dataset with chain-of-humor interpretation. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, volume 38, pages 17826–17834.

Mary Crawford. 2003. Gender and humor in social context. *Journal of pragmatics*, 35(9):1413–1430.

Dineh Davis. 2008. *Communication and humor*. na.

Jim Davis. 2024. Garfield.

ExplosmEntertainment. 2024. Cyanide & happiness.

Md Kamrul Hasan, Wasifur Rahman, AmirAli Bagher Zadeh, Jianyuang Zhong, Md Iftekhar Tanveer, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Mohammed (Ehsan) Hoque. 2019. UR-FUNNY: A multimodal language dataset for understanding humor. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 2046–2056, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Andrew F Hayes and Klaus Krippendorff. 2007. Answering the call for a standard reliability measure for coding data. *Communication methods and measures*, 1(1):77–89.

Ming Shan Hee, Wen-Haw Chong, and Roy Ka-Wei Lee. 2023. Decoding the underlying meaning of multimodal hateful memes. *Preprint*, arXiv:2305.17678.

Ming Shan Hee, Zihan Gao, Yinglong Wang, Xiangxiang Chu, Roy Ka-Wei Lee, and Zengchang Qin. 2025. Contrastive instruction fine-tuning large multimodal model for hateful meme classification. *Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media*, 19(1):760–773.

Ming Shan Hee and Roy Ka-Wei Lee. 2025. Demystifying hateful content: Leveraging large multimodal models for hateful meme detection with explainable decisions. *Preprint*, arXiv:2502.11073.

Jack Hessel, Ana Marasović, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 688–714, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Veedant Jain, Felipe dos Santos Alves Feitosa, and Gabriel Kreiman. 2024. Is ai fun? humordb: a curated dataset and benchmark to investigate graphical humor. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.13564*.

Sophie Jentzsch and Kristian Kersting. 2023. Chatgpt is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04563*.

Junhui Ji, Wei Ren, and Usman Naseem. 2023. Identifying creative harmful memes via prompt based approach. In *Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023*, WWW ’23, page 3868–3872, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Tonglin Jiang, Hao Li, and Yubo Hou. 2019. Cultural differences in humor perception, usage, and implications. *Frontiers in psychology*, 10:123.

James Kelly. 2024. They can talk.

Giselinde Kuipers et al. 2008. *The sociology of humor*. na.

Md Tahmid Rahman Laskar, M Saiful Bari, Mizanur Rahman, Md Amran Hossen Bhuiyan, Shafiq Joty, and Jimmy Xiangji Huang. 2023. A systematic study and comprehensive evaluation of chatgpt on benchmark datasets. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.18486*.

Roy Ka-Wei Lee, Rui Cao, Ziqing Fan, Jing Jiang, and Wen-Haw Chong. 2021. Disentangling hate in online memes. In *Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia*, MM ’21, page 5138–5147. ACM.

Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Dong Guo, Renrui Zhang, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Kaichen Zhang, Yanwei Li, Ziwei Liu, and Chunyuan Li. 2024. Llava-onevision: Easy visual task transfer. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.03326*.

Hongzhan Lin, Ziyang Luo, Wei Gao, Jing Ma, Bo Wang, and Ruichao Yang. 2024. Towards explainable harmful meme detection through multimodal debate between large language models. In *Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024*, WWW ’24, page 2359–2370, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Rod A Martin and Thomas Ford. 2018. *The psychology of humor: An integrative approach*. Academic press.

A Peter McGraw and Caleb Warren. 2010. Benign violations: Making immoral behavior funny. *Psychological science*, 21(8):1141–1149.
