## Limitations

While PixelHumor marks a significant advancement in evaluating humor comprehension in LMMs, several limitations remain. Humor is inherently subjective, and despite rigorous annotation guidelines, screening, and training, individual biases may influence interpretations. Additionally, PixelHumor focuses on static visual-textual humor in comics, excluding temporal and dynamic elements present in videos and animations, which are critical to humor in other media formats. Furthermore, as the dataset is primarily in English and primarily based in Western media, it may overrepresent Western humor conventions, limiting cross-cultural generalizability. Expanding PixelHumor to include multilingual and culturally diverse humor sources would be a valuable direction for future research.

## Ethical Consideration

We collected the web comics from a diversified public online sources to capture a broad spectrum of humor styles. However, comics such as Cyanide and Happiness may contain violence, sexually explicit and dark humor that might be uncomfortable for some readers. We are including these comics as they are still valuable for future work in understanding dark humor, hate speech and their connections in intelligent multimodal systems. As a precaution, we will separate these comics in the benchmark and label them as “potentially harmful”.

All annotators were recruited through our university’s internal calls for part-time research assistantship. There were no academic incentives towards the annotators and paid for 20 dollars per hour, which exceeds the minimum wage in our local context (9 dollars per hour). The annotators were informed in advance that the dataset may contain examples of dark or sarcastic humor, and they could withdraw or skip any samples they found uncomfortable. Additionally, annotators were compensated fairly and were provided with clear annotation guidelines that focused on humor classification, not value judgments or endorsements of the content.

While releasing our dataset, we do not redistribute the images directly, but instead provide URLs and associated metadata. We also plan to include a detailed usage disclaimer and data documentation sheet (datasheet for datasets) that explicitly warns users of potential content sensitivities and encourages ethical use of the dataset in research contexts.

## Acknowledgement

This research is supported by the National Research Foundation, Singapore under its AI Singapore Programme (AISG Award No: AISG3-AMP-2024-08-001). We also sincerely thank Bryan Tan (Chen Zhengyu) and Jia Wang Peh for their additional annotations and evaluations, which substantially improved this work.

## References

Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.*

Salvatore Attardo. 1997. The semantic foundations of cognitive theories of humor.

Salvatore Attardo. 2009. *Linguistic theories of humor.* Walter de Gruyter.

Dario Bertero and Pascale Fung. 2016. Deep learning of audio and language features for humor prediction. In *Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’16)*, pages 496–501, Portorož, Slovenia. European Language Resources Association (ELRA).

Rui Cao, Ming Shan Hee, Adriel Kuek, Wen-Haw Chong, Roy Ka-Wei Lee, and Jing Jiang. 2023a. Pro-cap: Leveraging a frozen vision-language model for hateful meme detection. In *Proceedings of the 31st ACM International Conference on Multimedia, MM ’23*, page 5244–5252, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Rui Cao, Roy Ka-Wei Lee, Wen-Haw Chong, and Jing Jiang. 2023b. Prompting for multimodal hateful meme classification. *Preprint*, arXiv:2302.04156.

Santiago Castro, Devamanyu Hazarika, Verónica Pérez-Rosas, Roger Zimmermann, Rada Mihalcea, and Soujanya Poria. 2019. Towards multimodal sarcasm detection (an \_Obviously\_ perfect paper). In *Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 4619–4629, Florence, Italy. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jorge Cham. 2024. Piled higher and deeper (phd comics).

Arjun Chandrasekaran, Ashwin K Vijayakumar, Stanislaw Antol, Mohit Bansal, Dhruv Batra, C Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh. 2016. We are humor beings: Understanding and predicting visual humor. In *Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*, pages 4603–4612.
