| Models | CPA | MPA$^{-}$ | MPA$^{+}$ | MPA |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| o3-mini ☆ | 78.3 | 6.0 | 3.4 | 4.7 |
| Gemini-2.0-FT ☆ | 71.1 | 6.9 | 24.6 | 15.8 |
| LLaMA-3.3 (70B) | 70.0 | 29.4 | 29.1 | 29.3 |
| GPT-4o ☆ | 64.9 | 14.9 | 17.4 | 16.2 |
| Phi-4 (14B) | 64.6 | 9.4 | 13.7 | 11.6 |
| Gemini-2.0-Flash ☆ | 44.6 | 44.9 | 35.7 | 40.3 |
| GPT-4o-mini ☆ | 36.3 | 10.9 | 11.7 | 23.6 |
| LLaMA-3.1 (8B) | 29.7 | 0.0 | 0.3 | 0.2 |
| Phi-3.5 (3B) | 14.9 | 48.3 | 47.1 | 47.7 |
| Humans 👥 | 87.9 | 87.3 | 94.4 | 90.9 |

☆ Closed-source models. Violet: Reasoning models.

Table 1: **Model performance on the Comprehension task.** Models are ordered based on decreasing CPA.

| Models | ACC | VPA | EWA |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| o3-mini ☆ | 93.9 | 98.0 | 99.1 |
| GPT-4o ☆ | 79.9 | 84.6 | 96.2 |
| Gemini-2.0-FT ☆ | 70.6 | 80.2 | 88.1 |
| Gemini-2.0-Flash ☆ | 69.5 | 75.9 | 87.8 |
| LLaMA-3.3 (70B) | 67.3 | 77.4 | 83.4 |
| GPT-4o-mini ☆ | 64.5 | 73.0 | 89.5 |
| Phi-4 (14B) | 53.9 | 69.3 | 80.5 |
| LLaMA-3.1 (8B) | 27.9 | 31.7 | 96.8 |
| Phi-3.5 (3B) | 22.4 | 27.3 | 78.5 |
| Humans 👥 | 85.7 | 95.1 | 100.0 |

☆ Closed LLMs. Violet: Reasoning models.

Table 2: **Model performance on the Resolution task.** Models are ordered based on decreasing Accuracy.

Valid Prefix Accuracy (**VPA**), and Existing Word Accuracy (**EWA**). These metrics measure correctness (whether the model resolves the pun), linguistic adherence (whether the response starts with the question’s subject), and word validity (ensuring the output is not a non-existent word), respectively.

**Metrics for Generation** We follow a three-step evaluation. First, we check if the pun’s answer ($\mathcal{X}\mathcal{Z}$) starts with the question’s subject ($\mathcal{X}$). If so, we use Gemini-1.5-Flash as a judge to verify whether $\mathcal{X}\mathcal{Z}$ derives from $\mathcal{X}$. If not, we check if $\mathcal{X}\mathcal{Z}$ is meaningfully associated with the question’s purpose ($\mathcal{Y}$). The pun is valid only if all conditions are met. We report Accuracy (**ACC**) as the primary metric for both task variants (i.e., Constrained and Free) and supplement the Free setting with a Creativity measure, evaluated by computing the proportion of unique subjects ($C_S$) and unique answers ($C_A$) generated by the models.

## 6 Results

### 6.1 Can LLMs Comprehend Puns?

Table 1 presents model results. For coherent puns, closed-source reasoning models perform best, with o3-mini reaching a CPA of 78.3. Among open-source models, LLaMA-3.3 (70B) closely follows Gemini-2.0-FT (70.0 vs. 71.1) and outperforms GPT-4o (64.9). As expected, larger models tend to achieve better CPA scores, suggesting a correlation between model size and pun comprehension. These results highlight an acceptable ability of LLMs to recognize true puns in our benchmark.

However, for misleading puns (see MPA), models perform remarkably poorly, revealing a critical weakness in their language understanding. Despite being strong at detecting real puns, o3-mini fails almost entirely in recognizing misleading ones, identifying only 4.7% correctly. This drop suggests that its reasoning abilities, while effective for structured patterns, break down when faced with nonsensical wordplay. In contrast, Phi-3.5, the weakest model in CPA, unexpectedly achieves the highest MPA score. Finally, when comparing different types of misleading puns (MPA$^{+}$ vs. MPA$^{-}$), we found no clear trend showing if semantically similar subject swaps confuse models more.

### 6.2 Can LLMs Resolve Puns?

Table 2 shows model results. o3-mini achieves an impressive 93.9% accuracy, even surpassing the human baseline. As in the Comprehension task, reasoning models outperform their standard counterpart, with o3-mini and Gemini-2.0-FT registering a +16% and +1.1% of absolute accuracy points over GPT-4o and Gemini-2.0-Flash, respectively. This correlates also with higher VPA and EWA. Again, performance correlates with model size, as smaller models like Phi-3.5 (3B) and LLaMA-3.1 (8B) struggle significantly, scoring only 22.38% and 27.91%. While all models seem to perform better in generating real words (EWA), they often fail to start punchlines with the question’s subject, leading to lower VPA scores. This issue is especially severe for smaller models (e.g., Phi-3.5 at 27.4%), which struggle despite the task’s simplicity. These results expose a fundamental flaw in instruction adherence, as models–regardless of size–fail to reliably follow even basic structural constraints.
