## Limitations

It is important to acknowledge some limitations in our work. First, for simplicity, (1) in dataset construction, we limited the answer words to only nouns and adjectives, excluding verbs, and (2) focused solely on suffix additions in the punchline (e.g., “*dog*” → “*dogma*”), thereby ignoring other possible approaches such as prefix additions or fill-in-the-blank methods. These choices constrain the scope of our investigation, limiting our exploration of other potential patterns in pun-based tasks, which we aim to address in future work. Second, all puns were manually crafted in English. The ability of LLMs to comprehend and generate puns may differ across languages, as puns in languages other than English might have distinct definitions, structures, or purposes, suggesting a direction for future research. Third, building on our contaminated subset of web-mined puns, we aim to explore perturbation-based tasks that test whether models reconstruct inputs from incomplete or altered inputs (Domeniconi et al., 2014a, 2016a)—offering a more targeted analysis of data leakage.

## Ethical Considerations

Since our work delves into humor, which is deeply contextual and culturally situated, we acknowledge that it could pose ethical challenges in ensuring that does not inadvertently perpetuate harmful stereotypes, biases, or offensive content. To address this, during pun construction, we took extra care to exclude subjects and answers that could be interpreted as perpetuating harmful or derogatory content. In particular, our design process was guided by explicit ethical considerations: we omitted topics known to be sensitive or historically marginalized, and our team critically reviewed all contributions to ensure that humor was achieved without compromising respect for any group or individual.

## Acknowledgements

Research partially supported by AI-PACT project (CUP B47H22004450008, B47H22004460001); National Plan PNC-I.1 DARE initiative (PNC0000002, CUP B53C22006450001); PNRR Extended Partnership FAIR (PE00000013, Spoke 8); 2024 Scientific Research and High Technology Program, project “AI analysis for risk assessment of empty lymph nodes in endometrial cancer surgery”, the Fondazione Cassa di Risparmio in Bologna; Chips JU TRISTAN project (G.A. 101095947). We thank the Maggioli Group[^4] for partially supporting the Ph.D. scholarship granted to Paolo Italiani.

## References

Marah I Abdin, Jyoti Aneja, Harkirat S. Behl, et al. 2024a. Phi-4 technical report. *CoRR*, abs/2412.08905.

Marah I Abdin, Sam Ade Jacobs, Ammar Ahmad Awan, et al. 2024b. Phi-3 technical report: A highly capable language model locally on your phone. *CoRR*, abs/2404.14219.

Deniz Arslan, Uğur Sak, and Nazmiye Nazli Atesgoz. 2021. Are more humorous children more intelligent? a case from turkish culture. *HUMOR*, 34:567 – 588.

Alexander Brock. 2017. Modelling the complexity of humour – insights from linguistics. *Lingua*, 197:5–15.

Alexander P. Christensen, Paul J. Silvia, Emily C. Nusbaum, and Roger E. Beaty. 2016. Clever people: Intelligence and humor production ability. *Psychology of Aesthetics, Creativity, and the Arts*, 12:136–143.

Christopher Clark, Kenton Lee, Ming-Wei Chang, et al. 2019. Boolq: Exploring the surprising difficulty of natural yes/no questions. In *NAACL-HLT 2019*, pages 2924–2936. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Elizabeth Clark, Yangfeng Ji, and Noah A. Smith. 2018. Neural text generation in stories using entity representations as context. In *NAACL-HLT 2018*, pages 2250–2260. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yufeng Diao, Hongfei Lin, Di Wu, et al. 2018. Weca : a wordnet-encoded collocation-attention network for homographic pun recognition. In *EMNLP 2018*, pages 2507–2516. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Giacomo Domeniconi, Marco Masseroli, Gianluca Moro, and Pietro Pinoli. 2014a. Discovering new gene functionalities from random perturbations of known gene ontological annotations. In *KDIR 2014 - Proceedings of the International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Information Retrieval, Rome, Italy, 21 - 24 October, 2014*, pages 107–116. SciTePress.

Giacomo Domeniconi, Marco Masseroli, Gianluca Moro, and Pietro Pinoli. 2016a. Cross-organism learning method to discover new gene functionalities. *Comput. Methods Programs Biomed.*, 126:20–34.

[^4]: https://www.maggioli.com/who-we-are/company-profile
