<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Setting</th>
<th>Prompt</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" align="center"><strong>Task Instruction</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Comprehension</strong><br>(Coherent)</td>
<td>{pun} Did you get it? Possible answers:<br>- Yes, for exactly two reasons. First, ... Second, ...<br>- No, because ...<br>Don’t add further information.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Comprehension</strong><br>(Misleading)</td>
<td>{pun} Did you get it? Possible answers:<br>- Yes, because [your explanation]<br>- No, because [your explanation]<br>Don’t add further information.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Resolution</strong></td>
<td>Examples: {few_shot_examples}<br>New input: {pun}<br><strong>Direct:</strong> Answer by returning only one word as output, prefixed by "### Answer:".<br><strong>CoT:</strong> Answer by reasoning step by step, and eventually return your final answer (only one word)<br>prefixed by "### Answer:".</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Generation</strong> (Free)</td>
<td>Given a subject X, create an English pun using the format "What do you call a X that Y? XZ".<br>Follow these guidelines:<br>- Choose a prefix word X (the subject of the question).<br>- Attach a suffix Z to X, forming a real word XZ (the punchline).<br>- Ensure XZ’s actual definition naturally replaces Y, making the joke logical.<br>- Do not use compound words (e.g., dog → dogsitter, star → starlight) or derivatives of X (e.g., dog<br>→ doggy, rat → rats, pay → payment) as value of XZ.<br>Example pun(s): {few_shot_examples}<br><strong>Direct:</strong> Answer by returning the new pun, prefixed by "### pun:".<br><strong>CoT:</strong> First, think step by step and eventually return the new pun.<br>This must be your output format:<br>### rationale: {step by step reasoning}<br>### pun: {your new pun}.<br>Don’t add further information.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Generation</strong> (Con-<br>strained)</td>
<td>Given a subject X, create an English pun using the format "What do you call a X that Y? XZ".<br>Follow these guidelines:<br>- Attach a suffix Z to X, forming a real word XZ (the punchline). - Ensure XZ’s actual definition<br>naturally replaces Y, making the joke logical. - Do not use compound words (e.g., dog → dogsitter,<br>star → starlight) or derivatives of X (e.g., dog → doggy, rat → rats, pay → payment) as value of XZ.<br>Example pun(s): {few_shot_examples}<br>New input: What do you call a X=’{subject}’ that Y? XZ.<br><strong>Direct:</strong> Answer by returning the final values of Y and XZ, prefixed by "### answer:".<br><strong>CoT:</strong> First, think step by step and eventually return the final values of Y and XZ.<br>This must be your output format:<br>### rationale: step by step reasoning<br>### answer: Y=’...’, XZ=’...’<br>Don’t add further information.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" align="center"><strong>Evaluation Instruction</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Generation</strong> (step 1)</td>
<td>Determine whether the given word’s meaning is derived from the provided root word.<br>Examples: {few_shot_examples}<br>New input: Is "{answer}" derived from "{prefix}"?<br>Explain briefly your decision and then answer with "yes" or "no" prefixed by "Answer:".</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Generation</strong> (step 2)</td>
<td>Examples: {few_shot_examples}<br>New input: Are "{predicate}" and "{answer}" semantically related?<br>Explain briefly your decision and then answer with "yes" or "no" prefixed by "Answer:".</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Comprehension</strong><br>(Coherent)</td>
<td>Determine whether the given explanations are equivalent. This means that the predicted answer should<br>match both of the two reasons given by the gold answer.<br>Gold explanation: {gold_rationale}<br>Predicted explanation: {model_explanation}<br>Question: Are the two explanations equivalent?<br>Explain briefly your decision and then answer with "yes" or "no" prefixed by "Answer:".</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 5: Overview of prompts used for Pun Comprehension, Resolution, and Generation, along with the one employed in generation evaluation process.
