the punch line in another) as a basic element [38, 85, 87][^1]. As we discuss in Section 5.2.2, producing and resolving incongruity is a task with human-level difficulty. We situate LLMs for comedy within broader computational humour research and AI-assisted comedy performance [67, 71, 88] in Appendix A.

*1.1.2 The utility of instruction-tuned LLMs as Creativity Support Tools.* Similar to previous empirical studies on the use of LLMs for creative writing [19, 21–23, 37, 49, 53, 71, 83, 114], we asked the artists about their motivations and processes for using LLMs. We asked about the potential and limitations of language models as *Creativity Support Tools* [22], and quantified the *Creativity Support Index* of LLMs for comedy writing [25]. We report our results in Section 3.

*1.1.3 Socio-Technical Systems concerns with LLMs for creative writing.* Inspired by Dev et al. [29], we leveraged community engagement with large generative models, and interrogated the diverse, intersectional identities of the comedians using AI in a creative context. In addition to their reasons for using (or not using) LLMs as comedy-writing tools, we asked participants about the ethical considerations of using AI. The study was conducted at the time of the Writers’ Guild of America (WGA) 2023 strike [75]. Participants raised and addressed questions on the scrutiny of AI and on concerns around AI’s impacts, both on intellectual property and artistic copyright, and on artists’ livelihoods. We report their opinions in Section 4 and discuss these concerns in Section 5.3.

## 1.2 Investigating hypotheses about using LLMs to write comedy

Based on previous work and on the authors’ personal experience of AI as creativity support tools, we hypothesized—prior to conducting our study—that participants would express negative opinions of LLMs for co-creativity on four issues: expressing stereotyped (Sect. 1.2.1) or bland (Sect. 1.2.4) language, censorship (Sect. 1.2.2) and missing context (Sect. 1.2.3). We review literature on these four hypotheses below, as they become the basis of our mixed methods study.

*1.2.1 Biases in large language models.* Gender and racial biases embedded within machine learning models have been extensively documented [1, 11, 12, 14, 15, 18, 30, 42, 94, 105]. These biases include sexism and racism [11, 94], homophobia and transphobia [31, 84], Islamophobia [1], the perpetuation of Western colonial mindsets [73], Anglocentrism [115], and in-group vs. out-group social identity biases [48]. In their extensive reviews, Bommasani et al. [15], Rauh et al. [86] identified two broad kinds of harms resulting from such biases: *intrinsic harms* such as representational bias (due to misrepresentation, overrepresentation, and underrepresentation of specific social groups), and *extrinsic harms*, the downstream consequences of biased models, including representational and performance disparities. As we show in Section 4, the study participants noticed a few examples of representational harm and many examples of underrepresentation harm (also called *allocational harm* in [86]), such as erasure when LLMs refused to generate content for certain demographic groups.

*1.2.2 Potential censorship of speech labeled as “offensive”.* Comedians often pepper their language with profanities and their material with provoking themes. As we discuss in Section 5.1.2 (and confirmed by the study participants in Section 4), *offensive* language that would be perfectly acceptable at a comedy club may get “censored” by instruction-tuned LLMs that “refuse” to answer “offensive” prompts.

This problem has been observed in automated moderation of online content, such as hate speech detectors that suppress social media posts by queer communities and drag queens [31, 32], or posts using African-American Vernacular English [3, 112]. Amironesei and Díaz [3] called it *censorship*. Rauh et al. [86] studied algorithmic moderation of social media posts by the Perspective API, noting that “authors of the comment may be harmed if their content is incorrectly flagged as toxic” by the moderation tool. Similar erasure due to the cultural hegemony embedded in image generators has been studied in [83]. We relate the participants’ experience, similarly frustrated that the LLM tools “considered” their own identity and comedy material as problematic and necessary to censor.

Díaz et al. [32] defined *offensive language* as non-normative “language that uses terminology that is noted as offensive but which is not perceived as offensive in particular contexts of use”, and studied its use by minorities as a form of resistance, for “socially productive uses of decoratively offensive language”, aiming to reclaim “offensive” language and resist oppression. Just like the minority groups described in [32], many comedians (who may be members of minority groups themselves) often use offensive jokes to *punch up*, and satire (“to challenge existing social structures”) to build empathy, rather than to *punch down* (“silence others”).

*1.2.3 Missing context.* Context is key to disambiguate offensive language from hate speech. LLMs, like social media posts, cause “context collapse” [65] by providing a limited amount of information to understand their meaning, particularly when using mock impoliteness. Specifically, “in-group usage of reclaimed slurs can be considered acceptable, depending on who uses them” [28, 86]. Moreover, the context of comedy extends beyond the language to other factors including the audience and the venue.

*1.2.4 Homogeneisation.* Bommasani et al. [15] warned that “the application of foundation models across domains has the potential to act as an epistemically and culturally homogenising force, spreading one perspective, often a socially dominant one, across multiple domains of application”. In the arts, this means that AI-generated artifacts may lead to a homogeneisation of aesthetic styles [34, 104], further reinforced by curation algorithms [34, 64]. For creative writing, empirical studies showed that instruction-tuned LLMs reduce the diversity of content in co-writing tasks [80], and that LLM-generated stories did not pass the *Torrance Test of Creative Writing* according to metrics of “fluency, flexibility, originality and elaboration” [21]. Similarly to Qadri et al. [83], we ran focus groups with artists to interrogate cultural (Western) biases (see Sections 2.3 and 2.4).

*1.2.5 Investigating hypotheses via a mixed-methods study.* In our empirical study, we ask participants questions on all four problems

[^1]: Alternative humour theories include the Aristotelian *Relief Theory* [5] of tension and release whereby we let out our psychic energy connected with repressed topics, the *Superiority Theory* [46] whereby we laugh at others’ misfortunes to feel better about ourselves, and the *Benign Violation Theory* [69].
