### B.3 Creativity Support Index of the AI writing tool

This section contains questions that will allow us to compute a Creativity Support Index for the AI writing tool. Most of these questions overlap with those in the previous section.

- The AI system allowed other people to work with me easily. [1 to 10]
- It was really easy to share ideas and designs with other people inside this system or tool. [1 to 10]
- I would be happy to use this system or tool on a regular basis. [1 to 10]
- I enjoyed using the system or tool. [1 to 10]
- It was easy for me to explore many different ideas, options, designs, or outcomes, using this system or tool. [1 to 10]
- The AI system was helpful in allowing me to track different ideas, outcomes, or possibilities. [1 to 10]
- I was able to be very creative while doing the activity inside this system or tool. [1 to 10]
- The system or tool allowed me to be very expressive. [1 to 10]
- My attention was fully tuned to the activity, and I forgot about the AI system that I was using. [1 to 10]
- I became so absorbed in the activity that I forgot about the AI system that I was using. [1 to 10]
- What I was able to produce was worth the effort I had to exert to produce it. [1 to 10]
- I was satisfied with what I got out of the system or tool. [1 to 10]

In the questions above, 1 corresponds to Strongly disagree and 10 to Strongly agree.

For the following question: When writing comedy material, it is most important that I’m able to: the participant was shown two choices of response and asked to choose one of those two choices. There were six possible responses (listed below). Given that we consider pairs of 2 different responses at a time, there are $C_6^2 = \frac{6!}{4!2!} = 15$ unique pairwise choices.

- Be creative and expressive
- Become immersed in the activity
- Enjoy using the system or tool
- Explore many different ideas, outcomes, or possibilities
- Produce results that are worth the effort I put in
- Work with other people

All the questions listed in this section B.3 are directly taken from [25] and the NASA Task Load Index [43], and are used as is for easy of reproduction of results. Note that the questions pertaining to human-human collaboration are less pertinent to our study.

### B.4 Free-form questions about the AI system for writing.

- What is one thing that the AI system did well?
- What is one improvement for the AI system?
- Please provide any comments, reflections, or open questions that came up for you during the writing session.
- Please provide any other comments, reflections, or open questions that came up for you when answering this survey.

## C FOCUS GROUP QUESTIONS

### C.1 Qualitative questions about the specific writing task

- Did you find any of the generated outputs helpful? If so, could you recall one output that was usable and explain in what way it helped you write?
- Could you recall one generated output that was not usable, and explain why?
- How do you think the generated output differed from what you would find in some of the resources you use often, e.g., Wikipedia, Google search, other artists’ material?
- How did the prompts we suggested differ from your custom prompts?
- Comment on the types of comedy that you managed to generated with the AI tools.
- Were any of the generated outputs that were presented offensive/inappropriate in some way? If so, what did you think of these?
- What made you decide to stop generating outputs?
- Did you have any concerns about ownership or agency when generating outputs?

### C.2 General discussion points about AI tools for comedy

- What does your comedy writing process look like? How is this process of working with AI different from working alone or working with other comedians?
- What can you say about the stereotypes in the outputs generated by the AI writing tool? How do they relate to or differ from stereotypes in human written comedy?
- Is humor and comedy evolving over time? Should AI tools adapt to societal changes in a similar way?
- Does the computer have a "voice"? How would you compare it with the voice of a human comedian? What are the consequences for writing comedy about identity?
- What is your stance on moderation? Should the output of AI tools be allowed to be edgy? Can and should the output of AI tools be moderated?
- How does context shape the meaning of comedy? Who has the responsibility for the comedy material?
- When is it acceptable to use other comedians’, or in general, other artists’ work? What about the outputs of an AI writing tool?
