# ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The authors wish to thank Renée Shelby, Jackie Kay, Mark Diaz, Nick Swanson, Remi Denton, Rida Qadri, Maribeth Rauh, Jason Gabriel, Tom Everitt, Merrie Morris, Canfer Akbulut, Nahema Marchal, Boxi Wu, Antonia Paterson, and Ed Hirst, for helpful discussions and suggestions, as well as Shereen Ashraf, Tom Rodenby, Rob Willoughby, Nasem Shalbak, Alyssa Pierce, Robert Ogley, Lorrayne Bennett, Jon Small and Vijay Bolina for support in the study.

# 7 ETHICAL GUIDANCE

## 7.1 Ethical considerations

Our empirical study was approved by the ethics board appointed by our institution, who considered adverse impacts of LLMs upon participants (e.g., exposure to harmful and biased LLM outputs), the right to withdrawal without prejudice, and the compensation of participants. Participant anonymity was an additional requirement for the study, which explains why we did not collect demographic data from the participants.

At the beginning of the session, the objectives of the workshop were discussed with the participants.

The study contains some offensive language, which is mentioned as a trigger warning at the beginning of the paper.

## 7.2 Researchers’ positionality

The question of researchers’ positionality was directly asked by some of the workshop participants, who asked “what side we were on?”, meaning the side of the AI or the comedians’. Workshop facilitators answered that they were passionate about building AI tools that are useful for the artists, that they were open to any criticism and wanted the industry to listen to these criticisms and change behaviour. The professional affiliation of the workshop organisers (Google DeepMind) was disclosed to the participants.

Two of the authors of this study (Piotr Mirowski and Kory Mathewson) have extensively used AI in professional comedy performance since 2016 through their human and AI duet *HumanMachine*<sup>13</sup> and AI theatre company *Improbotics*<sup>14</sup>, a participatory theatre lab exploring the creative potential and ethics of generative AI. In that process, these two researchers have had numerous opportunities to discuss the subjects of AI with artists and academics. All participants of the workshop were aware of the authors’ dual affiliation and artistic exploration of AI tools for live performance. We all exchanged flyers and pitched our respective shows at the end of the workshop.

## 7.3 Adverse impacts

We considered reputation damage for the participants, due to the participation in a study on AI for writing comedy material. This risk is exemplified by some participants: “I have friends who don’t talk to me anymore, because they learned that I have an AI show going on here” (p1) or “I have a friend who is deeply upset that I was using generative AI in my flyers” (p2). This risk was mitigated by keeping all participants anonymous in the study, by requesting all participants to adhere to Chatham House rules [47] following the focus groups, as well as by anonymising the names of shows and details of comedy material in the participants’ survey answers and focus group transcripts. Furthermore, we reduced this risk by reaching out to prospective participants who had already advertised using AI in their process or who were discussing AI in their subject material (i.e., on their show listing for Edinburgh Festival Fringe 2023, or on their personal website and social media profiles).

The second adverse impact can be the intentional or unintentional publication of comedians’ work. We addressed this concern by asking the participants to remove details of their shows and personal material from the writing sessions, and by personally removing anything that was omitted from the survey results, writing sessions’ answers, and from the focus groups transcripts.

The third possible adverse impact could be advertising for the dissemination of LLMs as tools for writing. It is addressed, to some extent, by honest reporting of the concerns of the participants.

<sup>13</sup>https://humanmachine.live  
<sup>14</sup>https://improbotics.org

# REFERENCES

[1] Abubakar Abid, Maheen Farooqi, and James Zou. 2021. Persistent anti-muslim bias in large language models. In *Proceedings of the 2021 AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society*. 298–306.

[2] Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. 2020. A survey on approaches to computational humor generation. In *Proceedings of the The 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*. 29–41.

[3] Razvan Amironesei and Mark Diaz. 2023. Relationality and Offensive Speech: A Research Agenda. In *The 7th Workshop on Online Abuse and Harms (WOAH)*. 85–95.

[4] Anthropic. 2023. Collective constitutional AI: Aligning a language model with public input. https://www.anthropic.com/index/collective-constitutional-ai-aligning-a-language-model-with-public-input

[5] Aristotle. 350 BC. *Poetics*.

[6] Arnav Arora, Lucie-Aimée Kaffee, and Isabelle Augenstein. 2022. Probing pretrained language models for cross-cultural differences in values. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.13722* (2022).

[7] Amanda Askell, Yuntao Bai, Anna Chen, Dawn Drain, Deep Ganguli, Tom Henighan, Andy Jones, Nicholas Joseph, Ben Mann, Nova DasSarma, et al. 2021. A general language assistant as a laboratory for alignment. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.00861* (2021).

[8] Yuntao Bai, Andy Jones, Kamal Ndousse, Amanda Askell, Anna Chen, Nova DasSarma, Dawn Drain, Stanislav Fort, Deep Ganguli, Tom Henighan, Nicholas Joseph, Saurav Kadavath, Jackson Kernion, Tom Conerly, Sheer El-Showk, Nelson Elhage, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Danny Hernandez, Tristan Hume, Scott Johnston, Shauna Kravec, Liane Lovitt, Neel Nanda, Catherine Olsson, Dario Amodei, Tom Brown, Jack Clark, Sam McCandlish, Chris Olah, Ben Mann, and Jared Kaplan. 2022. Training a Helpful and Harmless Assistant with Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback. arXiv:2204.05862 [cs.CL]

[9] Michiel Bakker, Martin Chadwick, Hannah Sheahan, Michael Tessler, Lucy Campbell-Gillingham, Jan Balaguer, Nat McAleese, Amelia Glaese, John Aslanides, Matt Botvinick, et al. 2022. Fine-tuning language models to find agreement among humans with diverse preferences. *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems* 35 (2022), 38176–38189.

[10] Amir Baradaran. 2023. Towards a decolonial I in AI: mapping the pervasive effects of artificial intelligence on the art ecosystem. *AI & SOCIETY* (2023), 1–13.

[11] Emily M Bender, Timnit Gebru, Angelina McMillan-Major, and Shmargaret Shmitchell. 2021. On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be too big?. In *Proceedings of the 2021 ACM conference on fairness, accountability, and transparency*. 610–623.

[12] Ruha Benjamin. 2019. *Race After Technology: Abolitionist Tools for the New Jim Code*. John Wiley & Sons.

[13] Kim Binsted and Graeme Ritchie. 1994. An implemented model of punning riddles. In *Proceedings of the Twelfth AAAI National Conference on Artificial Intelligence*. 633–638.

[14] Su Lin Blodgett, Gilsinia Lopez, Alexandra Olteanu, Robert Sim, and Hanna Wallach. 2021. Stereotyping Norwegian salmon: An inventory of pitfalls in fairness benchmark datasets. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers)*. 1004–1015.

[15] Rishi Bommasani, Drew A Hudson, Ehsan Adeli, Russ Altman, Simran Arora, Sydney von Arx, Michael S Bernstein, Jeannette Bohg, Antoine Bosselut, Emma
