Brunskill, et al. 2021. On the opportunities and risks of foundation models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07258* (2021).

[16] Boyd Branch, Piotr Mirowski, and Kory W Mathewson. 2021. Collaborative Storytelling with Human Actors and AI Narrators. *Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Computational Creativity* (2021). https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.14728

[17] Virginia Braun and Victoria Clarke. 2006. Using thematic analysis in psychology. *Qualitative research in psychology* 3, 2 (2006), 77–101.

[18] Joy Buolamwini and Timnit Gebru. 2018. Gender shades: Intersectional accuracy disparities in commercial gender classification. In *Conference on fairness, accountability and transparency*. PMLR, 77–91.

[19] Alex Calderwood, Noah Wardrip-Fruin, and Michael Mateas. 2022. Spinning coherent interactive fiction through foundation model prompts. ICCC.

[20] James E Caron. 2002. From ethology to aesthetics: Evolution as a theoretical paradigm for research on laughter, humor, and other comic phenomena. *Humor: International Journal of Humor Research* (2002).

[21] Tuhin Chakrabarty, Philippe Laban, Divyansh Agarwal, Smaranda Muresan, and Chien-Sheng Wu. 2023. Art or artifice? large language models and the false promise of creativity. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.14556* (2023).

[22] Tuhin Chakrabarty, Vishakh Padmakumar, Faeze Brahman, and Smaranda Muresan. 2023. Creativity Support in the Age of Large Language Models: An Empirical Study Involving Emerging Writers. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.12570* (2023).

[23] Tuhin Chakrabarty, Vishakh Padmakumar, and He He. 2022. Help me write a Poem-Instruction Tuning as a Vehicle for Collaborative Poetry Writing. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*. 6848–6863.

[24] Yuetian Chen, Bowen Shi, and Mei Si. 2023. Prompt to GPT-3: Step-by-Step Thinking Instructions for Humor Generation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.13195* (2023).

[25] Erin Cherry and Celine Latulipe. 2014. Quantifying the creativity support of digital tools through the creativity support index. *ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI)* 21, 4 (2014), 1–25.

[26] Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian Gehrmann, et al. 2023. Palm: Scaling language modeling with pathways. *Journal of Machine Learning Research* 24, 240 (2023), 1–113.

[27] Paul F Christiano, Jan Leike, Tom Brown, Miljan Martic, Shane Legg, and Dario Amodei. 2017. Deep reinforcement learning from human preferences. *Advances in neural information processing systems* 30 (2017).

[28] Adam M Croom. 2011. Slurs. *Language Sciences* 33, 3 (2011), 343–358.

[29] Sunipa Dev, Akshita Jha, Jaya Goyal, Dinesh Tewari, Shachi Dave, and Vinodkumar Prabhakaran. 2023. Building Stereotype Repositories with LLMs and Community Engagement for Scale and Depth. *Cross-Cultural Considerations in NLP@ EACL* (2023), 84.

[30] Sunipa Dev, Emily Sheng, Jieyu Zhao, Aubrie Amstutz, Jiao Sun, Yu Hou, Mattie Sanseverino, Jiin Kim, Akihiro Nishi, Nanyun Peng, et al. 2022. On Measures of Biases and Harms in NLP. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: AACL-IJCNLP 2022*. 246–267.

[31] Thiago Dias Oliva, Dennys Marcelo Antonialli, and Alessandra Gomes. 2021. Fighting hate speech, silencing drag queens? artificial intelligence in content moderation and risks to LGBTQ voices online. *Sexuality & Culture* 25 (2021), 700–732.

[32] Mark Díaz, Razvan Amironesei, Laura Weidinger, and Iason Gabriel. 2022. Accounting for offensive speech as a practice of resistance. In *Proceedings of the sixth workshop on online abuse and harms (woah)*. 192–202.

[33] Oliver Double. 2017. Tragedy plus time: Transforming life experience into stand-up comedy. *New Theatre Quarterly* 33, 2 (2017), 143–155.

[34] Ziv Epstein, Aaron Hertzmann, Investigators of Human Creativity, Memo Akten, Hany Farid, Jessica Fjeld, Morgan R Frank, Matthew Groh, Laura Herman, Neil Leach, et al. 2023. Art and the science of generative AI. *Science* 380, 6650 (2023), 1110–1111.

[35] Iason Gabriel. 2020. Artificial intelligence, values, and alignment. *Minds and machines* 30, 3 (2020), 411–437.

[36] Hannah Gadsby. 2018. Hannah Gadsby: Nanette. USA:: Netflix (2018).

[37] Katy Ilonka Gero, Vivian Liu, and Lydia Chilton. 2022. Sparks: Inspiration for science writing using language models. In *Designing Interactive Systems Conference*. 1002–1019.

[38] Matthew Gervais and David Sloan Wilson. 2005. The evolution and functions of laughter and humor: A synthetic approach. *The Quarterly review of biology* 80, 4 (2005), 395–430.

[39] BOBBY GHAJAR, COLETTE GHAZARIAN, ANGELA L DUNNING, MARK WEINSTEIN, JUDD LAUTER, and MARK A LEMLEY. 2023. UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA. (2023). https://llmlitigation.com/pdf/03417/kadrey-meta-complaint.pdf

[40] Fabricio Goes, Piotr Sawicki, Marek Grzes, Dan Brown, and Marco Volpe. 2023. Is GPT-4 Good Enough to Evaluate Jokes?. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Conference for Computational Creativity*.

[41] Fabricio Goes, Zisen Zhou, Piotr Sawicki, Marek Grzes, and Daniel G Brown. 2022. Crowd score: A method for the evaluation of jokes using large language model AI voters as judges. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.11214* (2022).

[42] Foad Hamidi, Morgan Klaus Scheuerman, and Stacy M Branham. 2018. Gender recognition or gender reductionism? The social implications of embedded gender recognition systems. In *Proceedings of the 2018 chi conference on human factors in computing systems*. 1–13.

[43] Sandra G Hart and Lowell E Staveland. 1988. Development of NASA-TLX (Task Load Index): Results of empirical and theoretical research. In *Advances in psychology*. Vol. 52. Elsevier, 139–183.

[44] Manuel Flurin Hendry, Norbert Kottmann, Martin Fröhlich, Florian Bruggisser, Marco Quandt, Stella Speziali, Valentin Huber, and Chris Salter. 2023. Are you talking to me? a case study in emotional human-machine interaction. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment*, Vol. 19. 417–424.

[45] Jack Hessel, Ana Marasović, Jena D Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2022. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.06293* (2022).

[46] Hobbes. 1651. *Leviathan*.

[47] Chatham House. 2017. Chatham house rule.

[48] Tiancheng Hu, Yara Kyrychenko, Steve Rathje, Nigel Collier, Sander van der Linden, and Jon Roozenbeek. 2023. Generative language models exhibit social identity biases. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.15819* (2023).

[49] Chieh-Yang Huang, Sanjana Gautam, Shannon McClellan Brooks, Ya-Fang Lin, and Ting-Hao’Kenneth’ Huang. 2023. Inspo: Writing Stories with a Flock of AIs and Humans. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.16521* (2023).

[50] Matthew M Hurley, Daniel Clement Dennett, and Reginald B Adams. 2011. *Inside jokes: Using humor to reverse-engineer the mind*. MIT press.

[51] Francis Hutcheson. 1750. *Reflections upon Laughter, and Remarks upon the Fable of the Bees*. R. Urie.

[52] Marcio Lima Inácio and Hugo Gonçalo Oliveira. 2023. Towards Generation and Recognition of Humorous Texts in Portuguese. In *Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Student Research Workshop*. 26–36.

[53] Daphne Ippolito, Ann Yuan, Andy Coenen, and Sehmon Burnam. 2022. Creative writing with an ai-powered writing assistant: Perspectives from professional writers. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.05030* (2022).

[54] Sophie Jentzsch and Kristian Kersting. 2023. ChatGPT is fun, but it is not funny! Humor is still challenging Large Language Models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04563* (2023).

[55] Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Antoine Roux, Arthur Mensch, Blanche Savary, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Emma Bou Hanna, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Bour, Guillaume Lample, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Lucile Saulnier, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Sandeep Subramanian, Sophia Yang, Szymon Antoniak, Teven Le Scao, Théophile Gervet, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, and William El Sayed. 2024. Mixtral of Experts. arXiv:2401.04088 [cs.LG]

[56] Harry H Jiang, Lauren Brown, Jessica Cheng, Mehtab Khan, Abhishek Gupta, Deja Workman, Alex Hanna, Johnathan Flowers, and Timnit Gebru. 2023. AI Art and its Impact on Artists. In *Proceedings of the 2023 AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society*. 363–374.

[57] Rebecca L Johnson, Giada Pistilli, Natalia Menédez-González, Leslye Denisse Dias Duran, Enrico Panai, Julija Kalpokiene, and Donald Jay Bertulfo. 2022. The Ghost in the Machine has an American accent: value conflict in GPT-3. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.07785* (2022).

[58] Jean Kaddour, Joshua Harris, Maximilian Mozes, Herbie Bradley, Roberta Raileanu, and Robert McHardy. 2023. Challenges and Applications of Large Language Models. arXiv:2307.10169 [cs.CL]

[59] Atoosa Kasirzadeh and Iason Gabriel. 2023. In conversation with Artificial Intelligence: aligning language models with human values. *Philosophy & Technology* 36, 2 (2023), 1–24.

[60] Hannah Rose Kirk, Andrew M Bean, Bertie Vidgen, Paul Röttger, and Scott A Hale. 2023. The past, present and better future of feedback learning in large language models for subjective human preferences and values. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.07629* (2023).

[61] Jianquan Li, Xiangbo Wu, Xiaokang Liu, Qianqian Xie, Prayag Tiwari, and Benyou Wang. 2023. Can Language Models Make Fun? A Case Study in Chinese Comical Crosstalk. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*. 7581–7596.

[62] Alex John London et al. 2023. Beneficent Intelligence: A Capability Approach to Modeling Benefit, Assistance, and Associated Moral Failures through AI Systems. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.00868* (2023).

[63] Moira Maguire and Brid Delahunt. 2017. Doing a thematic analysis: A practical, step-by-step guide for learning and teaching scholars. *All Ireland Journal of Higher Education* 9, 3 (2017).

[64] Lev Manovich. 2018. *AI aesthetics*. Strelka Press Moscow.
