## 4.3 Marginalization of minority identities

Many participants commented on the challenges of using LLMs to write content which reflected perspectives and identities outside of the “Western” (p11, p18), “white” (p14), “heteronormative” (p10), “male” (p5, p15) mainstream. They attributed these difficulties to the moderation applied to model outputs; the data used to train the models; and prompting or other instruction-tuning techniques that aimed to “generalize” model outputs for a broad audience.

*4.3.1 LLM-generated outputs reflect a particular set of ethics, values and norms.* Participants expressed concern over the values reflected in the outputs of LLMs, and found them less useful when those values did not reflect those of their own cultures. Speaking as a member of the “majority,” participant p20 described that “we have a set of views of what we think is good, and our norms, and it just repeats, it behaves within these norms.” P11 questioned “whose ethics [and norms] are being enforced on these large language models?”, suggesting these were Western ones.

*4.3.2 When prompted to reflect non-dominant identities, LLMs made only shallow adjustments.* Many participants described their attempts to steer LLM outputs away from dominant narratives and stereotypical characters, and their dissatisfaction with the results. They explained that models’ adjustments in response to these prompts were surface-level, failing to truly reflect other identities, and described issues with the names of characters introduced by the LLM: “when I switched the whole conversation to Indian languages, it didn’t automatically change the names. It still was Maria, Evan, Lexi” (p18). “I specified that the scene was set in Sweden, but the names were not typically Swedish” (p20). P18 described their attempts to “Indianize” the model’s outputs by introducing Indian languages into the prompt: “it seemed very artificial from the perspective of just using languages, but it was not truly embedding itself into the culture” (p18).

*4.3.3 Moderation makes LLMs less useful to minorities by suppressing content by and about marginalized identities.* Many participants expressed frustration that their prompts would be rejected when they prompted the model to generate content from the perspective of someone of their identity. To them, the model not only seemed less capable of generating outputs which felt authentic to people from non-majority groups, but explicitly “othered” them by alluding that any content produced by someone of their background was potentially dangerous or non-inclusive. Participant p6 expressed frustration at the models’ delineation of what is acceptable and what needs to be sanitized: “it’s taking out the gay language of it to make it more appealing or more palpable. This is the whole premise of my show, who decides what is PC in the first place?” Similarly, participant p1 found that the model would not generate outputs from her point of view: “it’s all so politically correct–I wrote a comedic monologue about Asian women, and it says, ‘As an AI language model, I am committed to fostering a respectful and inclusive environment’.” Participant p5 highlighted the unevenness of this treatment of identity, remarking that while the model was “uncomfortable writing a monologue about an Asian woman, but I just asked it to write a comedy monologue from the perspective of a white man, and it did it” (p5).

*4.3.4 Moderation makes LLMs less useful to minorities by suppressing topics important to people from marginalized identities.* Participants described that not only were the models unlikely to generate content from marginalized perspectives, but also refused to engage with topics that might be important to people from those backgrounds. P14 was frustrated with “having to use the language of the oppressor... I couldn’t say ‘white supremacy’ or I couldn’t say ‘terrorist.’ I had to find another way to say the same thing, because it couldn’t work around those limitations” (p14). They posited that because these controversial topics were more likely to be important to people of color, this moderation introduced “just an extra hurdle, and I think people of color, and, I think, people coming from outside of a UN-type lens, they’re gonna run into those problems.”

## 4.4 Fundamental limitations of AI in contrast to human writers

While most participants felt the difficulties introduced by the moderation could be alleviated by different approaches to safety filtering or instruction tuning, they also commented on some more fundamental limitations of LLMs. They posited that LLMs would never be able to create human-level comedy, due to models’ inability to pull from personal experience, lack of perspective, and lack of context and situational awareness—features that are critical to good comedy.

*4.4.1 AI’s inability to draw on personal experience is a fundamental limitation.* Many participants described the centrality of personal experience in good comedy, which enables comedians to draw upon their memories, acquaintances, and beliefs to construct an authentic and engaging narrative: “very much related to who I am and my lived experience, as well as the place I am in” (p11). “I always draw from my experience, or my memories, or something someone said that stayed with me for many, many years – and I think that’s what makes literature interesting and unique” (p20). This experience, some participants said, enables them to effectively calibrate their writing: “I have an intuitive sense of what’s gonna work and what’s gonna not work based on so much lived experience and studying of comedy, but it is very individualized and I don’t know that AI is ever gonna be able to approach that” (p14). By contrast, LLMs could not perform such calibration: “it really had no idea how to punch up or punch down. It had no perspective, so it couldn’t take any risks in terms of jokes” (p6). Participants emphasized that perspective and point of view was a uniquely human trait, saying that “human comedians... add much more nuance and emotion and subtlety” due to their lived experience and relationship to the material (p16).

*4.4.2 AI’s lack of context (understanding of its audience and location) is a fundamental limitation.* In addition to its lack of personal experience, participants described LLMs’ lack of awareness of the context in which its comedic material would be delivered as another fundamental limitation. Multiple participants commented on the importance of understanding the effects of culture and geography on what material would land with an audience: “the kind of comedy that I could do in India would be very different from the kind of comedy that I could do in the UK, because my social context would change” (p11); “what works in LA isn’t gonna work in Raleigh, or what’s working in Chicago is not going to work in Albuquerque”
