arXiv:2405.20956v2 [cs.AI] 3 Jun 2024

# *A Robot Walks into a Bar:* Can Language Models Serve as Creativity Support Tools for Comedy?  
# An Evaluation of LLMs’ Humour Alignment with Comedians

|  |  |
|---|---|
| Piotr W. Mirowski*<br>piotrmirowski@deepmind.com<br>Google DeepMind<br>London, UK | Juliette Love*<br>juliettelove@deepmind.com<br>Google DeepMind<br>London, UK |
| Kory Mathewson<br>korymath@deepmind.com<br>Google DeepMind<br>Montréal, QC, Canada | Shakir Mohamed<br>shakir@deepmind.com<br>Google DeepMind<br>London, UK |

## ABSTRACT

We interviewed twenty professional comedians who perform live shows in front of audiences and who use artificial intelligence in their artistic process as part of 3-hour workshops on “AI x Comedy” conducted at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in August 2023 and online. The workshop consisted of a comedy writing session with large language models (LLMs), a human-computer interaction questionnaire to assess the Creativity Support Index of AI as a writing tool, and a focus group interrogating the comedians’ motivations for and processes of using AI, as well as their ethical concerns about bias, censorship and copyright. Participants noted that existing moderation strategies used in safety filtering and instruction-tuned LLMs reinforced hegemonic viewpoints by erasing minority groups and their perspectives, and qualified this as a form of censorship. At the same time, most participants felt the LLMs did not succeed as a creativity support tool, by producing bland and biased comedy tropes, akin to “cruise ship comedy material from the 1950s, but a bit less racist”. Our work extends scholarship about the subtle difference between, on the one hand, harmful speech, and on the other hand, “offensive” language as a practice of resistance, satire and “punching up”. We also interrogate the global value alignment behind such language models, and discuss the importance of community-based value alignment and data ownership to build AI tools that better suit artists’ needs. **Warning: this study may contain offensive language and discusses self-harm.**

## CCS CONCEPTS

• **Applied computing → Performing arts;** • **Human-centered computing → Empirical studies in HCI;** *User studies;* • **Social and professional topics →** *Censoring filters.*

*Both authors contributed equally to this research.*

Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored. For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).  
*FAccT ’24, June 3–6, 2024, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil*  
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).  
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0450-5/24/06  
https://doi.org/10.1145/3630106.3658993

## KEYWORDS

Large Language Models, Comedy, Creativity, Offensive speech, Censorship, Value Alignment

**ACM Reference Format:**  
Piotr W. Mirowski, Juliette Love, Kory Mathewson, and Shakir Mohamed. 2024. *A Robot Walks into a Bar:* Can Language Models Serve as Creativity Support Tools for Comedy? An Evaluation of LLMs’ Humour Alignment with Comedians. In *The 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT ’24), June 3–6, 2024, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.* ACM, New York, NY, USA, 15 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3630106.3658993

# 1 INTRODUCTION

## 1.1 Motivation: investigate the potential and implications of LLMs for comedy writing

Recent work on the intersection of AI and comedy has demonstrated [24, 54, 68, 70, 99, 106] an appetite for comedians to (try to) write humorous material using AI tools like Large Language Models (LLMs). We conducted an empirical study to better understand the current state of LLMs as comedy-writing support tools, their use-cases and limitations, and artists’ opinions on ethical questions regarding their use in a comedy-writing context. The complexity of comedy can help expose some limitations of LLMs. To participate, we recruited 20 professional comedians who use AI in their artistic processes and who perform live shows in front of audiences (10 in person at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, 10 online) for a 3-hour-long workshop on “AI x Comedy”. As detailed in Section 2, the workshop consisted of a comedy writing session with generally-available instruction-tuned LLMs (ChatGPT [77, 79] and Bard [26, 98]), a human-computer interaction questionnaire, and focus group discussions on the use of LLMs in comedy writing and ethical concerns.

### 1.1.1 Using LLMs for humour, a task with human-level difficulty.

Trying to combine humour and machine intelligence is a longstanding subject of scientific enquiry [85, 93, 102], and is perceived as a fundamental challenge. According to computational humour researchers like Winters [106], “humans are the only known species that use humor for making others laugh” [20, 38]. Winters [106] argues that one of the modern formal humor theories points to *incongruity* [51] (whereby the setup points in one direction and
