(p17). This poses a fundamental challenge for LLMs, they argued, because they lacked any context beyond what is provided to them in the prompt: “comedy is all about subtext, and a lot of that subtext can be unspoken, about who’s on stage, what environment they’re in” (p14). To participant p11, this makes the LLM unable to adapt its material effectively, because it is “everywhere and nowhere all at once” (p11).

#### 4.4.3 *As a text-only medium, (current) LLMs are missing critical aspects of comedy: delivery and surprise.*

Many participants commented on the importance of delivery in a quality comedy routine: “any written text could be an okay text, but a great actor could probably make this very enjoyable” (p19). Given that current widely-available LLMs are primarily accessible through a text-based chat interface, they felt that the utility of these tools was limited to only a subset of the domains needed for producing a full comedic product. This, too, some participants argued, illustrates the fundamental need for humans in the comedy generation process: “AI is just generating content” (p18). A few participants further attributed their lack of success at generating humorous outputs with LLMs to the statistical methods by which the models were trained. By simply learning to predict the most likely next token of text, they hypothesized, models will be unable to produce the surprising and unique moments that are hallmarks of comedy: “the whole idea of humor is that it is surprising, and it is so human, and AI is only adept at regurgitating tropes” (p15). LLMs cannot produce truly original content, participant p14 argued, “because the context has already been written by other people.”

### 4.5 Concerns around data sources used to train LLMs

Participants also expressed various concerns pertaining to the data sources used to train current widely-available LLMs. They discussed the ethical issues with training models on copyrighted works; the possibilities of unintentionally plagiarizing works on which the models were trained; and the lack of diversity represented in the training data. However, they also acknowledged the importance of training data in model performance, and many expressed uncertainty around how to balance their ethical concerns with their desire for more effective and equitable models.

#### 4.5.1 *Participants criticized the training of models on copyrighted data, but acknowledged its positive impact on performance.*

Participants were acutely aware of the pending litigation over the training of models on copyrighted data at the time of the focus groups. Some participants, including participant p15, expressed sympathy for those whose work was included in the training data: “Sarah Silverman... spent years honing her voice and then an AI just scraped her content, and now you can tell an AI to write in the style of Sarah Silverman [...] I don’t think it’s ethical” (p15). Other participants took a more balanced view, echoing their concerns with training on copyrighted works while acknowledging the benefits: “I think they are overtrained on copyrighted work... but on the other hand, if we didn’t put all that stuff in there, it wouldn’t work as well” (p19). Some participants feared unintentionally plagiarizing authors’ whose works were included in the training data: “I cannot tell if someone has written something like this before. We know that it’s using statistics from previous texts to recreate this, that it can in principle only be based on what already exists” (p20). Some participants had suggestions on licensing models: “for music, licensing is something tracked and recognized” (p10) and “not against the tools, but I think there needs to be licensing agreements for the work that should be compensated” (p4).

#### 4.5.2 *The lack of diversity in the training data perpetuates majority viewpoints, to the detriment of people from underrepresented identities.*

Multiple participants hypothesized that they struggled to get the LLMs to produce authentic-sounding content because the models were trained heavily on data that did not represent people of their identity. A few participants described unsuccessful attempts to replicate content in the style of famous non-white comedians and writers (p11, p14). “If you’re only getting biased inputs, you’re only getting the writing from a really biased lens. So there’s not enough black voices in there to make an accurate black sounding voice” (p14). “As someone who lives in the global south, I am not looking to make a play in the form of Shakespeare or other Western literature. I am looking to write about an Indian author. I find all these language models really lacking in references or authorship styles from this part of the world” (p11). However, participants also questioned whether, given the other ethical concerns about training data, more training on these underrepresented voices was indeed a good thing: “should this AI be able to completely replicate a black comedic voice? There’s a line between being able to replicate a voice and then immediately going into cultural appropriation. I don’t know how a large language model could ever effectively walk that line” (p17).

## 5 DISCUSSION

After analysing our study participants’ feedback and inspired by recent discussions on the ethics of generative models, we discuss how comedy and humour can be seen as special cases of value alignment (Sect. 5.1) where context is key (Sect. 5.2) and how data ownership impacts artists (Sect. 5.3).

### 5.1 Towards community-based cultural value alignment for humour and comedy

The participants’ critical stance towards popular conversational LLMs (ChatGPT and Bard) as a tool for comedy writing suggests that those tools may be currently misaligned with the particular creative goals of the artists.

#### 5.1.1 *Complexity of global cultural value alignment of LLMs for creative uses.*

The participants’ observations might be a special case of a more general problem. We first borrow Masoud et al. [66]’s definition of *cultural value alignment* as “ the process of aligning an AI system with the set of shared beliefs, values, and norms of the group of users that interact with the system”, where such values are “fundamental beliefs an individual or a group holds towards socio-cultural topics” [6]. Gabriel [35] discusses the complexity of attempting to align generalist conversational AI systems—made to be used by diverse users for diverse tasks—with values shared by global communities, particularly given significant variations in norms and conceptions of justice across societies. In “Whose
