Opinions Do Language Models Reflect?”, Santurkar et al. [90] propose to probe the cultural representation encoded in LLMs. For instance, Johnson et al. [57] identified, in some LLMs, lack of pluralistic opinions in LLM outputs and values that were culturally more aligned with the US, on issues ranging from secularism to gender and sexuality. Gabriel [35] and Kirk et al. [60] warn about the pitfalls of value imposition by one community over another—a problem surfaced by participants in our study.

In addition to the challenge of value alignment for diverse groups of users, Kasirzadeh and Gabriel [59] discuss alignment for diverse tasks, namely factual information retrieval vs. creative storytelling: “creative work aspires to achieve *creative freedom* and *originality*”, the latter often “obtained by stretching, even outright violating, the various rules of the game” [59, 95].

*5.1.2 The problem with global fine-tuning of Harmless, Helpful and Honest conversational agents.* Askell et al. [7] explicitly list *honest*, *helpful*, and *harmless* as stated objectives for general purpose assistants (the so-called *HHH criteria*) because those “seem to capture the majority of what users want from an aligned AI”. However, while they discuss inter-agent and intra-agent conflicts between the three *HHH criteria*, they do not address the question of how the human values that underlie each of those criteria might conflict between different societies, nor do they discuss creative use cases where users may not want “*honest*” conversational agents, or may have a different definition of “*harmless*” [44].

Askell et al. [7] further propose to train such *HHH* assistants directly from user interactions and using preference models, for instance through Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback [27, 116]. During such fine-tuning, LLMs such as OpenAI’s ChatGPT [77, 79], Google Bard [26, 98], Anthropic’s Claude [8], and Meta’s Llama [100] are all finetuned on annotators’ feedback supposed to represent values of the global community. However, the wider social or relational context of the producer and audience of the LLM’s interactions, do not factor into the model’s training objective. The crowdworkers or users who fine-tune LLMs may not sufficiently represent the diversity of opinions [60], and provide insufficiently defined feedback. And yet the default versions of the LLMs are released under assumptions of indiscriminate, global cultural value alignment.

The broad *HHH criteria* embody a Western philosophical approach to alignment [101] and bias [29]. As the participants noted, such global cultural value alignment underlying LLMs might also be directly in conflict with the specificity and local tastes that make comedy funny: “*the broader appeal something has, the less great it could be. If you make something that fits everybody, it probably will end up being nobody’s favorite thing*” (p10).

*5.1.3 Community-based value alignment of LLMs.* Thus, to make LLMs effectively understand or generate humour, their value-based alignment should be redirected from global alignment to community-based alignment with specific audiences and comedians. Communities could agree on a set of values for their specific culture and acceptable language norms, before training, fine-tuning or adapting the LLM. More simply, LLMs could be trained only on feedback and data generated by members of each distinct community, data that will reflect that community’s actual norms and values. As Gabriel [35] suggests, this kind of value alignment could happen through a democratic process (see more recent work on Collective Constitution AI [4, 92]). The LLM could be designed as a mixture model that accommodates a plurality of viewpoints [101] or could be fine-tuned to allow consensus-based agreement among humans with diverse preferences [9]. The technical infrastructure for community-based value alignment of LLMs is readily available: for example, proprietary LLMs like ChatGPT [77, 79] or Palm 2 [26], as well as open-source models like Llama [100] or Mixtral [55] (via the HuggingFace platform[^9]), all allow fine-tuning on user-supplied text or conversations. The key problem for communities is setting up data governance and infrastructure to responsibly collect and curate data [111].

One benefit of global value alignment is the prevention of harm; delegating such a responsibility to a smaller community of users is not without risks. To prevent harm, one could envision mechanisms for community accountability, and assume that comedians share some common values, such as do not harm (and do not lose) the audience[^10]: “if we’re using it to create material as artists, the responsibility for what we do with that material is on me” (p4).

*5.1.4 Avoiding unnecessary paternalism in LLMs for creative uses.* Two alternative formulations of the interaction between a creative (comedy) writer and AI could be adapted from [62] and [34]. In the first, the AI writing tools should “enable the [human] to more effectively carry out tasks that are instrumental to their goals” while being “mediated by the norms and infrastructure of the society in which they live” [62]. In the second, “meaningful human control is achieved if human creators can creatively express themselves through the generative system, leading to an outcome that aligns with their intentions and carries their personal, expressive signature” [34]. Provided that societal norms can be formulated in the subtle and edgy domain of humour, an LLM designed according to principles of *beneficent intelligence* [62] and with self-expression as a goal [34] could ensure the comedian’s creative freedom when interacting with the tool, while minimising *unnecessary paternalism* due to LLM censorship.

## 5.2 Humour and comedy uses of LLMs require incorporating the context

As we hypothesised in Section 1.2, and as observed by study participants, LLM tools did not take into account the relational context when moderating offensive language, and missed the broader situational context of comedy writing.

*5.2.1 Recent AI ethics research on relational context for LLMs.* There are safety reasons why widely-released public-facing LLMs generally cannot handle offensive language and dark humour. As Kasirzadeh and Gabriel [59] observe in the case of creative storytelling, the potential harms of LLMs are due to their deployment in “domains that are not context-bound”. Weidinger et al. [104] recognise that “context determines whether a given capability may cause harm” and propose to add human interaction (as well as systemic impacts) in safety evaluation, in order to “account for relevant context”: “who uses the AI system, to what end and under

[^9]: https://huggingface.co/models

[^10]: While comedy has also been used as a weapon to target and alienate specific social groups and spread hateful stereotypes, we exclude such misuse from our argument, as that usage falls under the definition of hate speech [32, 86]
