## 4.1 Use-cases of LLMs in comedy writing and quality of generated outputs

Participants described a diverse array of use cases for LLMs in their writing practice, including as a conversational brainstorming partner (p19), critic (p6), choreographic assistant (p3), translator (p1, p11, p12, p19, p20), and historical guru (p13). They generally reflected positively on the potential of LLMs to assist with some tasks within the comedy writing process. However, many participants commented on the overall poor quality of generated outputs, and the amount of human effort required to arrive at a satisfying result.

*4.1.1 LLMs can be an effective first step for quickly generating content and structure.* Participants described the utility of LLMs for generating content much faster than human writers. They described success with using LLMs to generate first drafts, which then required significant edits from human writers: “AI allows you to kind of get that s*** first draft immediately” (p6). Participant p14 called their initial output “a vomit draft that I know that I’m gonna have to iterate on and improve.” Many participants also described using LLMs to generate a structure for a sketch or other performance, of which they could then fill in the details—the LLM “spat out a scene which provided a lot of structure” (p17).

*4.1.2 Generated outputs are generally of poor comedic quality.* Many participants noted that they only used LLMs for setup and structure generation due to their inability to generate humorous outputs from the models: “the most bland, boring thing—I stopped reading it. It was so bad” (p6), “just consistently bad [...] didn’t really improve on the jokes” (p10). Some participants described particular aspects critical in comedy, and how LLMs seemed incapable of them: “AI generated material has a lack of agency. [...] lacking that little bit of urgency that shows it can be emotional” (p11).

*4.1.3 Participants had difficulty steering LLMs away from bland and generic outputs.* Six participants described LLM-generated outputs as “bland” or “generic,” making them poor producers of comedic or artistic material: “the words seem very generic. They lack that incisiveness that I often find with human written language” (p11); “if you zoom out on the story that it told, it wasn’t really a good story or a creative story” (p20). Participants also commented on various prompting approaches and their general lack of success at prompting the LLM to generate more specific or interesting responses: “no matter how much I prompt [...] it’s a very straight-laced, sort of linear approach to comedy” (p11).

*4.1.4 The human writer still produces the humorous elements in co-written text.* The importance of human writers in providing the comedic aspects of material written with LLMs was a common theme. Many participants commented that while LLMs could provide effective setup or structure, they often could not provide the humor: “usually it can serve in a setup capacity. I more often than not provide the punchline” (p17). When participants had success using LLMs in the writing process, they still attributed the best parts of produced output to the human in the loop: “the only thing again that is funny in what I gave you is the joke I put into the prompting” (p15).

*4.1.5 Lack of concern over ownership over generated content.* In response to questions about feelings of ownership over content that was co-written with LLMs, most participants felt little concern. For some, this was due to the poor quality of generated outputs: “most of the jokes I was writing [are] the level of, I will go on stage and experiment with it, but they’re not at the level of, I’d be worried if anyone took one of these jokes” (p14). For others, it was due to the amount of human effort required in improving generated outputs: “I don’t feel a lot of ownership, because there’s no finished product. If I could polish it, then it would feel more like it is mine” (p19).

## 4.2 Limitations introduced by moderation and safety filtering

Participants commented on the moderation and safety filtering applied to widely-available language models. They remarked that this moderation limited the creative agency of human writers using LLMs, by serving as an initial editor of the text and removing writers’ ability to self-moderate. They also expressed frustration at being unable to use LLMs to write about many themes common in comedy writing, including sexually-suggestive material (p3, p10, p13, p16), dark humor (p8), and offensive jokes (p10, p15, p20).

*4.2.1 Moderation and safety filtering limits writers’ creative agency.* Participants explained that self-moderation is a critical part of the writing process, and expressed frustration that moderation tools on LLMs interfered with that process: “the creative process is about going through stages of ‘this material isn’t good enough, it’s not right, or it’s offensive, it’s marginalizing people, I need to make it more acceptable.’ And I think AI models are beginning to do that before you have a chance to explore” (p10). “It probably would be more interesting for a writer if there would be less moderation, because you can do the moderation in your own prompts. A writer is going to moderate themselves. If you’re writing with an AI, if you don’t like the bad stuff that it writes, you won’t use it” (p19). Participants described that this external source of moderation limited the creative control of the human writer: “it’s interesting if there’s less moderation, because... the end result is moderated in the way that the author wants it to be” (p19). Some explained that if filters were necessary, that the user should still have some degree of control over them: “I feel like the opportunity to set the filters should still be at the performers’ end” (p12).

*4.2.2 Moderation limits writers’ ability to use AI with their preferred subject matter.* In addition to affecting the creative writing process, participants commented that moderation tools limited their ability to write freely on subject matter of their choice. “Comedy’s about pushing the boundaries or pointing out how ridiculous something is, on the fringe of what’s acceptable. And so when a lot of your inputs are limited that way, it’s gonna make it harder to be what I consider funny” (p14). Multiple participants expressed difficulty using LLMs to write potentially-offensive humor: “I was a little bit disappointed that it wasn’t a little bit offensive. It could have been a fun scene” (p20). Participant p8 described challenges using LLMs for dark humor: “a lot of my stuff can have dark bits in it. And then it wouldn’t write me any dark stuff, because it sort of thought I was going to commit suicide. So it just stopped giving me anything.”
