[111] BigScience Workshop, Teven Le Scao, Angela Fan, Christopher Akiki, Ellie Pavlick, Suzana Ilić, Daniel Hesslow, Roman Castagné, Alexandra Sasha Luccioni, François Yvon, et al. 2022. Bloom: A 176b-parameter open-access multilingual language model. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.05100* (2022).

[112] Albert Xu, Eshaan Pathak, Eric Wallace, Suchin Gururangan, Maarten Sap, and Dan Klein. 2021. Detoxifying Language Models Risks Marginalizing Minority Voices. In *Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*. 2390–2397.

[113] Kevin Yang, Yuandong Tian, Nanyun Peng, and Dan Klein. 2022. Re3: Generating Longer Stories With Recursive Reprompting and Revision. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*. 4393–4479.

[114] Ann Yuan, Andy Coenen, Emily Reif, and Daphne Ippolito. 2022. Wordcraft: Story Writing With Large Language Models. In *27th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces*. 841–852.

[115] Kaitlyn Zhou, Kawin Ethayarajh, and Dan Jurafsky. 2021. Frequency-based distortions in contextualized word embeddings. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.08465* (2021).

[116] Daniel M Ziegler, Nisan Stiennon, Jeffrey Wu, Tom B Brown, Alec Radford, Dario Amodei, Paul Christiano, and Geoffrey Irving. 2019. Fine-tuning language models from human preferences. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.08593* (2019).

# A RELATED WORK ON COMPUTATIONAL HUMOUR, AI AND COMEDY

This section reviews computational humour literature. As foreshadowed in the Introduction (Sect. 1.1) and discussed in the Section on the importance of context in humour and comedy (Sect. 5.2.2), humour remains an elusive goal for AI.

## A.1 Humour generation, from template-based systems to prompting

Amin and Burghardt [2], Winters [106] and Veale [102] provide extensive surveys on the history of computational humour generation and early approaches, like hand-coded rules [109] and templates for puns, riddles and acronyms [13, 97], or templates for automatically-generated slide decks for improvised “Powerpoint Karaoke” [108].

With the advent of LLMs, able to generate grammatically correct sentences in a given writing style, writers can focus on joke structure, guiding LLM-based systems to replicate such structures from examples of jokes [110], or use evolutionary computing to evolve text to become more satirical [107]. More broadly, Kaddour et al. [58] summarise recent work on using LLMs for creative applications such as (potentially humorous) story generation, including “Recursive Reprompting and Revision” [113] or interactive writing tools like “WordCraft” [53] and “Dramatron” [71].

## A.2 LLMs for comedy performance

LLMs have been deployed since at least 2016 for live performance on stage, including in improvised comedy [16, 67, 70], short comical film scripts like *Sunspring*, and song lyrics for musical comedy like *Beyond the Fence*<sup>15</sup>. More recently, LLMs have been involved in (involuntarily) comical, absurdist productions of Prague-based company THEaiTRE [88, 89, 91], and semi-improvised comedy *Plays By Bots*<sup>16</sup> [71]. The success of these performances with AI primarily relied on the skills of the actors, who could invent subtext and add interpretation to AI-generated text [70].

<sup>15</sup>https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2016/feb/28/beyond-the-fence-review-computer-created-musical-arts-theatre-london  
<sup>16</sup>Review: https://12thnight.ca/2022/08/13/oh-no-bots-have-invaded-theatre-and-they-can-do-it-plays-by-bots-a-fringe-review/

# B PARTICIPANT QUESTIONNAIRE

## B.1 Your past experience with AI systems in general.

Please answer based on your past experience, before this workshop.

- Have you used AI systems to write comedy material in the past? [Yes, and I used that material in some of my performances / Yes, but only to explore ideas / No]
- Have you used AI systems to generate content (including audio, video, text, etc.) for some of your performances? [Yes, and I operated the AI system myself / Yes, but someone else operated the AI system / No]
- In fewer than 10 words, why did you use AI in your artistic process? For example: trendy topic, glitch aesthetic, inspiration, etc.
- In fewer than 10 words, what is your background with AI? (Please do not give personally identifiable information)
- In few than 10 words, what is your performance background? For example: full-time comedian, dancer, years of experience, etc. (Please do not give personally identifiable information)

Note that the wording of these questions (for example: trendy topic, glitch aesthetic, inspiration) could be considered as potentially biasing, but we believed it was ultimately helpful to prompt study participants.

## B.2 Your experience with the AI system for writing comedy material

Please answer based on your interaction with the AI system in this morning’s writing session.

- I found the AI system helpful. [1 to 5]
- I felt like I was collaborating with the AI system. [1 to 5]
- I found it easy to write with the AI system. [1 to 5]
- I enjoyed writing with the AI system. [1 to 5]
- I was able to express my creative goals while writing with the AI system. [1 to 5]
- The comedy material written with the AI system feel unique. [1 to 5]
- I feel I have ownership over the comedy material written with the AI system. [1 to 5]
- I was surprised by the responses from the AI system. [1 to 5]
- I’m proud of the comedy material written with the AI system. [1 to 5]

In the questions above, 1 corresponds to Strongly disagree and 5 to Strongly agree.
