Jack Hessel, Ana Marasović, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Do Androids Laugh at Electric Sheep? Humor “Understanding” Benchmarks from The New Yorker Caption Contest. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 688–714, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Naman Jain, King Han, Alex Gu, Wen-Ding Li, Fanjia Yan, Tianjun Zhang, Sida Wang, Armando Solar-Lezama, Koushik Sen, and Ion Stoica. 2024. Live-codebench: Holistic and contamination free evaluation of large language models for code. *CoRR*, abs/2403.07974.

Roman Jakobson. 1959. On linguistic aspects of translation. *Topics in the Theory of Signs and Communication*, 1:114–130.

Takeshi Kojima, Shixiang Shane Gu, Machel Reid, Yutaka Matsuo, and Yusuke Iwasawa. 2023. Large Language Models are Zero-Shot Reasoners. ArXiv:2205.11916 [cs].

Waltraud Kolb and Tristan Miller. 2022. Human-computer interaction in pun translation. In *Using Technologies for Creative-Text Translation*, 1 edition, pages 66–88. Routledge, New York.

Huanyong Liu. 2018. Chinesehumorsentiment: Chinese humor sentiment mining including corpus build and nlp methods. https://github.com/liuhuanyong/ChineseHumorSentiment. GitHub repository.

Fuli Luo, Shunyao Li, Pengcheng Yang, Lei li, Baobao Chang, Zhifang Sui, and Xu Sun. 2019. Pun-GAN: Generative Adversarial Network for Pun Generation. ArXiv:1910.10950 [cs].

CT Marina Ilari. 2021. Translating humor is a serious business. Accessed: 2025-01-30; By ATA Chronicle of American Translators Association.

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. Making computers laugh: investigations in automatic humor recognition. In *Proceedings of the conference on Human Language Technology and Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing - HLT ’05*, pages 531–538, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Peter Newmark. 1988. *A Textbook of Translation*. Prentice Hall.

Eugene A. Nida and Charles R. Taber. 1964. *The Theory and Practice of Translation*. Brill.

OpenAI. 2024a. Introducing openai o1. https://openai.com/o1/. Accessed: 2025-01-30.

OpenAI. 2024b. Introducing SWE-bench verified we’re releasing a human-validated subset of swe-bench that more.

OpenAI. 2024c. Openai o1-mini system card. Accessed: 2025-04-04.

OpenAI. 2025. Openai o3-mini system card. Accessed: 2025-04-04.

Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. 2001. BLEU: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In *Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting on Association for Computational Linguistics - ACL ’02*, page 311, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Qwen-Team. 2024a. Qvq: To see the world with wisdom. https://qwenlm.github.io/blog/qvq-72b-preview/. Accessed: 2025-01-30.

Qwen-Team. 2024b. Qwq: Reflect deeply on the boundaries of the unknown. https://qwenlm.github.io/blog/qwq-32b-preview/. Accessed: 2025-01-30.

Ricardo Rei, Craig Stewart, Ana C Farinha, and Alon Lavie. 2020. COMET: A Neural Framework for MT Evaluation. In *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*, pages 2685–2702, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

David Rein, Betty Li Hou, Asa Cooper Stickland, Jackson Petty, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Julien Dirani, Julian Michael, and Samuel R Bowman. 2023. GPQA: A graduate-level google-proof q&a benchmark. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.12022*.

Edwin Simpson, Erik-Lân Do Dinh, Tristan Miller, and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Predicting humorousness and metaphor novelty with Gaussian process preference learning. In *Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL 2019)*, pages 5716–5728.

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models. ArXiv:2201.11903 [cs].

Orion Weller and Kevin Seppi. 2020. The rJokes Dataset: a Large Scale Humor Collection.

Zhiwei Yu, Jiwei Tan, and Xiaojun Wan. 2018. A Neural Approach to Pun Generation. pages 1650–1660, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Nanfeng Zhang. 2000. On the untranslatability and retranslatability of puns. *Chinese Translators Journal*, 21(4):32–37.

Huijun Zhao. 2012. A quantitative model for pragmatic translation of puns. *Foreign Languages Research*, (5):72–76. 13 citations(CNKI)[6-1-2024].
