additionally leverage the LLM-as-a-judge paradigm using Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct, finding agreement for accuracy ($\alpha = .565$) and completeness ($\alpha = .519$) to be substantial, additionally supported by high Pearson’s correlations for accuracy (r = .641) and completeness (r = .602), both with $p < .001$. See Appendix A.6 for details on the LLM-as-a-judge set up, and Appendix A.3 for a deeper analysis of the ratings from the third-party evaluators and LLM judge.

## 5 Human Evaluation

Average explanation lengths alongside accuracy and completeness scores can be seen in Figure 3. Firstly, the lengths of explanations remain consistent within models regardless of joke type, suggesting that the length of a joke does not necessarily impact the required explanation length. Notably, the Gemini-based models produce the shortest explanations across all joke types, whilst GPT-4o-based models consistently generate the longest explanations, opting for more verbose outputs. However, the shorter explanations produced by the Gemini models do not seem to negatively impact their performance in terms of accuracy or completeness. Despite being more concise, the Gemini models appear to be efficient, focusing on the essential elements of an explanation without adding superfluous detail.

In terms of overall performance, completeness scores are generally lower than accuracy scores across all models. This difference indicates that the models are more likely to miss key details in their explanations than to hallucinate incorrect information or misinterpret jokes entirely. This trend suggests that whilst the LLMs may recognise the core components of a joke, they often fail to fully elaborate on all relevant aspects that contribute to humour.

When comparing model performance, GPT-4o consistently outperforms all others, demonstrating the highest accuracy and completeness scores across joke types. Interestingly, GPT-4o Mini outperforms Gemini Pro in some specific cases, such as in accuracy on homographic jokes, as well as in both accuracy and completeness for non-topical and topical jokes. Additionally, open-source Llama 70B, outperforms most other models except GPT-4o, whilst the R1-based reasoning models underperform compared to most other non-reasoning models.

### 5.1 Explanation Success Rate

For an explanation to be useful, it must be both accurate and complete, rather than scoring highly on only one criterion. As a result, in Figure 4 we present a binary categorisation of explanations, treating scores of 4 or above on both criteria as being "good" quality explanations (i.e., containing only minimal, non-intrusive errors, and/or omitting minor details). This facilitates a clear comparison of the challenges different joke types pose.

As illustrated in Figure 4, the success rate of explanations varies significantly across different joke types. Homographic jokes, where a word has multiple meanings but identical spelling, consistently yield the highest proportion of successful explanations across nearly all models. This suggests that it is easier to navigate the ambiguity of homographs, likely due to language models being aware of the polysemy of the different pun words. In contrast, heterographic jokes, which involve words that sound the same but are spelt differently, pose more difficulty for all models. GPT-4o is the only model that maintains a relatively high success rate in this category. The challenge likely stems from the additional complexity introduced by needing to recognise the phonetic similarity of the pun word whilst being trained on orthographic tokens. Non-topical jokes also show varying levels of performance. The non-topical subset consists of jokes from Reddit, including puns, incongruities and situational irony that cover a wide range of joke forms that have been rated highly by the Reddit userbase, causing the LLMs to struggle more severely than traditional puns. Lastly, topical jokes, which require contextual awareness of specific events, present the most notable challenges. While GPT-4o generates a relatively high proportion of "good" explanations, other models are substantially less successful. This is likely due to the subtle references to pop culture and real-world entities in the "topical" subset presenting a significant challenge to current state-of-the-art LLMs, requiring both high levels of reasoning in addition to a form of information retrieval where the information that needs retrieving is not always explicitly referred to.

We see a unique pattern of performance from the Deepseek R1 models. Whilst R1 70B performs well overall, the model’s reasoning capabilities do not result in it outperforming any other tested model. On the other hand, the 8B variant is the worst-performing model. We hypothesise that this is due to the focus on "reasoning" surrounding mathematical and coding problems, rather than "reasoning" in the general sense, such as identifying the common-sense incongruities that frequently cause humour, or "overthinking" the humour in simple puns. Furthermore, due to the reasoning steps taken, it may be the case that R1 8B
