Manan Dey, M. Saiful Bari, Canwen Xu, Urmish Thakker, Shanya Sharma Sharma, Eliza Szczechla, Taewoon Kim, Gunjan Chhablani, Nihal Nayak, Debajyoti Datta, Jonathan Chang, Mike Tian-Jian Jiang, Han Wang, Matteo Manica, Sheng Shen, Zheng Xin Yong, Harshit Pandey, Rachel Bawden, Thomas Wang, Trishala Neeraj, Jos Rozen, Abheesht Sharma, Andrea Santilli, Thibault Fevry, Jason Alan Fries, Ryan Teehan, Tali Bers, Stella Biderman, Leo Gao, Thomas Wolf, and Alexander M. Rush. 2022. Multitask Prompted Training Enables Zero-Shot Task Generalization. *arXiv preprint.*

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Alessandra Cervone, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022a. ExPUNations: Augmenting puns with keywords and explanations. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4590–4605, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Shuyang Gao, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022b. Context-situated pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4635–4648, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Alessandro Valitutti, Hannu Toivonen, Antoine Doucet, and Jukka M. Toivanen. 2013. “‘let everything turn well in your wife”: Generation of adult humor using lexical constraints. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 243–248, Sofia, Bulgaria. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Sven van den Beukel and Lora Aroyo. 2018. Homonym detection for humor recognition in short text. In *Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment and Social Media Analysis*, pages 286–291, Brussels, Belgium. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Minghan Wang, Hao Yang, Ying Qin, Shiliang Sun, and Yao Deng. 2020. Unified humor detection based on sentence-pair augmentation and transfer learning. In *Proceedings of the 22nd Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation*, pages 53–59, Lisboa, Portugal. European Association for Machine Translation.

Yang Wang, Chenghao Xiao, Chia-Yi Hsiao, Zi Yan Chang, Chi-Li Chen, Tyler Loakman, and Chenghua Lin. 2025. Drivel-ology: Challenging llms with interpreting nonsense with depth. *Preprint*, arXiv:2509.03867.

Orion Weller, Nancy Fulda, and Kevin Seppi. 2020. Can humor prediction datasets be used for humor generation? humorous headline generation via style transfer. In *Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Figurative Language Processing*, pages 186–191, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Orion Weller and Kevin Seppi. 2019. Humor detection: A transformer gets the last laugh. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 3621–3625, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Orion Weller and Kevin Seppi. 2020. The rJokes dataset: a large scale humor collection. In *Proceedings of the Twelfth Language Resources and Evaluation Conference*, pages 6136–6141, Marseille, France. European Language Resources Association.

Yongchao Zhou, Andrei Ioan Muresanu, Ziwen Han, Keiran Paster, Silviu Pitis, Harris Chan, and Jimmy Ba. 2023. Large Language Models Are Human-Level Prompt Engineers. *arXiv preprint.*

## A Appendix

### A.1 Implementation Details

**r/Jokes Filtering** In order to select 150 jokes from the r/Jokes dataset to represent the *topical* subset. we sort the original dataset by the assigned "score" field (calculated by Weller and Seppi (2020) based on the upvote-downvote ratio) to find the most popular jokes. Following this, we performed Named Entity Recognition (NER) via SpaCy, keeping jokes if they were found to contain entities of the following types from the SpaCy NER taxonomy: ORG (organisation), FAC (facility), WORK_OF_ART, LAW, ORG (organisations), PROD (products), EVENT, and PERSON. With these entity types consisting mainly of proper nouns of people, places and events, this filtering allows us to easily identify r/Jokes entries that are likely to require potentially esoteric world knowledge to perceive the humour within, as opposed to common sense or definitions of dictionary terms. This process reduced the dataset to just over 153k samples, of which we then take the top 150 highest scoring following manual verification.

**Prompt** For all models, we used the following prompt: "Explain the following joke (presented in square brackets) in approximately 100 words.\n\n[JOKE]\n\n". This is based on good practice for clearly marking the boundaries between the task and the joke instance, whilst the 100-word length is based on the average length of the human-authored explanations.

**Models** In our work, we specifically made use of the following model variants: GPT-4o (gpt-4o-2024-05-13), GPT-4o Mini (gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18), Gemini 1.5 Pro (gemini-1.5-pro-001), Gemini 1.5 Flash (gemini-1.5-flash-001), Llama 3.1 8B (Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct), Llama 3.1 70B
