[Figure: Three stacked grouped bar charts. (a) Average Explanation Lengths with y-axis "Average Length (words)" and joke types homographic, heterographic, non-topical, topical. (b) Accuracy Scores with y-axis "Accuracy Score". (c) Completeness Scores with y-axis "Completeness Score" and x-axis "Joke Type". Legend "Model": R1 70B, R1 8B, GPT-4o, GPT-4o Mini, Gemini Pro, Gemini Flash, Llama 70B, Llama 8B.]

Figure 3: (a) Average explanation lengths, (b) Average Accuracy score, (c) Average Completeness score, by model and joke type.

begins with a moderately good answer (in line with the other models tested), but due to its uncertainty in explaining the jokes, the reasoning steps introduce many opportunities for hallucination, resulting in the smaller 8B model continuing to follow incorrect reasoning before presenting its final answer, therefore becoming progressively worse.

We perform a logistic regression analysis, which further supports our hypotheses. Model size has a strong and significant impact on explanation quality, with larger variants being far more likely to generate "good" explanations ($\beta = 1.707$, $p < 0.001$). This reinforces our finding that larger models significantly outperform smaller ones. Regarding joke difficulty, the results align with the predicted ordering. Homographic jokes are the easiest to explain ($\beta = 0.583$, $p < 0.001$), while non-topical ($\beta = -0.511$, $p < 0.001$) and topical jokes ($\beta = -0.574$, $p < 0.001$) are significantly harder. This confirms that jokes requiring external context pose a greater challenge to LLMs than those based on simple semantics and phonetics alone. Overall, the model is highly significant ($p < 0.001$) and explains a meaningful portion of the variance (pseudo $R^2 = 0.138$).

## 6 Automatic Evaluation

In addition to the previously presented human evaluation, we provide the results of automatic metrics in Table 1. Whilst existing reference-based automatic metrics are not well designed for this task, we do confirm our originally hypothesised ordering of joke difficulties, with the explanations of homographic/heterographic puns scoring higher than the non-topical joke subset, which in turn scores higher than the topical jokes subset on most metrics.

## 7 Case Study

Example LLM explanations of a randomly selected joke from the topical subset are shown in Figure 5. We omit the R1 reasoning models for space. The joke of interest refers to a 2018 internet phenomenon called the "Tide Pod Challenge", where teenagers would dare each other to consume toxic laundry pods (*Tide* being a specific brand). The central element
