[Figure: Bar charts titled “Qwen 72B Instruct Judge” showing proportions of explanation quality by joke type for R1 70B, GPT-4o, Gemini Pro, Llama 70B, R1 8B, GPT-4o Mini, Gemini Flash, and Llama 8B. Y-axis label: “Proportion”. X-axis label: “Joke Type” with categories Homographic, Heterographic, Non-Topical, Topical. Legend: “Explanation Quality”; Good (≥ 4) in green, Poor (< 4) in red.]

Figure 9: Binary explanation success results from the LLM-judge of Qwen 72B across model and joke type.

we observed some instances of the Llama models resorting to degenerate patterns, such as being stuck in repetitive loops. Again, these account for a very small number of jokes (<1%). Regarding the heterographic pun subset of jokes, we noticed many instances of hallucination whereby the LLMs would explain that a punning word is phonetically similar to a word that shares little phonetic similarity. This is demonstrative of the challenge that heterographic puns present to LLMs, relying on phonetic characteristics of words, whilst such models are trained on orthographic text and therefore have limited phonetic knowledge.

### A.6 LLM-as-a-Judge Models and Prompts

When selecting our LLM judge for automatic evaluation, we required that candidates not be from the same model family as any of those under evaluation or from the same family as each other. Our candidates included the Mistral Mixture-of-Experts (Jiang et al., 2024) derivative, Prometheus 2 8x7B (Kim et al., 2024), which was specifically developed for LLM-based evaluation, Qwen 72B Instruct (Qwen et al., 2025), and Gemma 2 9B Instruct (Riviere et al., 2024). These were selected due to being the best performing models in the Hugging Face Judge Arena[^6] (with preliminary results disabled) that met our previously outlined criteria. At the time of selection (04/02/2025), Qwen was ranked 6th with 1203 ELO and Gemma 13th with 1157. The weights for the models were obtained from their respective Hugging Face model repositories. Overall, we found Qwen alone to demonstrate the best alignment with our human evaluation (versus a jury ensemble or any other individual judge).

Judge hyperparameters were all set to the model default except for temperature, which was fixed to 0.1 for all models, rather than zero, based on prior work (Sanh et al., 2022). The scoring criteria were the same as given to the human annotators, with the exception of the ordering of score categories, which were listed in ascending order rather than descending. This was done to better align with the training prompt of Prometheus. To obtain scores from each judge, we used the following prompt:

*You are an expert judge evaluating explanations of jokes. You will be given a joke, a reference explanation (human-authored), and a model-generated explanation to evaluate.\n\n You must evaluate the model’s explanation on the matter of {criteria} using only the following scroing criteria:\n\n {scoring_criteria}\n\n The joke:\n {joke}\n\n Reference explanation:\n {reference_explanation}\n\n Model explanation to evaluate:\n {model_explanation}\n\n Provide a score for this joke using only the scoring criteria provided. You must only respond with a single number between 0 and 5. You must produce no other output.*

[^6]: https://huggingface.co/spaces/AtlaAI/judge-arena
