(Meta-Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct), Deepseek R1 8B (DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B), and DeepSeek R1 70B (DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B). For GPT and Gemini, these refer to the stable releases available at the time (August 2024). All models had their settings (e.g., temperature) at default. We use the Google API with all user-accessible safety limits disabled, due to the potentially offensive content of some of the jokes.

**Inference** OpenAI models were prompted via the OpenAI API, whilst the Google models used the Google GenerativeAI API. Llama 8B was run on a desktop PC with an RTX 4080 Super, whilst Llama 70B, both R1 models, and the LLM Judge was run on an HPC node using two A100s.

**Participants** We recruited 2 third-party participants (i.e., not authors of this work) to perform evaluation on a subset of 240 explanations to calculate agreement. In compensation, they received a 60 GBP Amazon voucher for approximately 3 hours of work. Furthermore, 3 participants also evaluated the gold standard reference explanations (200 each), for which they received a 30 GBP Amazon voucher. Their involvement was conducted with the full ethical approval of the institution that the authors represent, with consent forms signed and a participant information sheet provided. The third-party checks of joke categorisation did not involve monetary compensation.

### A.2 Dataset Enhancement

We additionally provide phonetic transcriptions in the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) of all jokes in the dataset. To do so, we utilise Anthropic’s Claude Sonnet 3.5 (20241022), owing to advanced handling of factors such as abbreviations over traditional grapheme-to-phoneme (G2P) models. A subset of these transcriptions were manually verified by an author of this work who is a trained phonetician. We additionally present a test phrase of "The pikachu weighs 45 lbs and is 5ft 9". He works at the CIA but previously worked at NASA", in order to verify its handling of non-dictionary terms, abbreviations, initialisms and acronyms, which it did successfully. Specifically, we request transcriptions of the General American (GenAm) accent, owing to the primary userbase of Reddit with L1 English being North Americans.

When constructing the prompt, we provided a clear task description, also to Claude Sonnet, and requested that it construct its own prompt. Prior work has shown this to be an effective strategy (Zhou et al., 2023). The resulting prompt is as follows:

*You are a linguistic transcription tool. For any text samples provided:\n\n 1. Convert EVERY sample into IPA format without exception - no samples should be skipped or partially transcribed\n 2. Use General American (GenAm) pronunciation standards consistently\n 3. If uncertain about any transcription, ask for clarification rather than making assumptions\n 4. Do not proceed without transcribing ALL text samples provided\n\n Example input:\n 'Hello world'\n\n Expected output:\n hə'loʊ wɚld\n\n Please proceed with the transcription."*

### A.3 Additional Annotator & LLM Judge Results

Figure 6 and Figure 7 present the results of the evaluation from the 2 third-party evaluators we recruit to analyse a subset of joke explanations. Overall, the same trend that was viewed in Figure 3 and Figure 4 can be seen, with the order of joke difficulty being the same for these evaluators on the tested subset. Owing to the smaller subsets (10 jokes per type), some minor differences can be seen in the ordering of performance for some model/joke type combinations. The same is provided in Figure 8 and Figure 9 for our use of Qwen 72B Instruct as an LLM judge.

### A.4 Additional Automatic Evaluation

Full results of automatic evaluation, broken down by both model and joke type, can be seen in Table 2.

### A.5 Additional Qualitative Analysis

**Reddit Joke Types** Table 3 and Table 4 present examples of non-topical and topical jokes from the Reddit subsets, respectively. Regarding the non-topical jokes, the first example plays on common knowledge regarding religious practices and the focus of churches on the bible. Joke 2 is a form of deadpan humour that refers to the higher mortality rates of children who are not vaccinated against preventable diseases. The third joke presents phonetic wordplay, requiring the reader to interpret "12345678" as "one 2, three 4..." and so on. Finally, joke 4 plays on the mathematical concept of imaginary numbers. On the other hand, regarding the topical jokes, joke 1 makes reference to the media franchise of Alien v. Predator, whilst additionally referring to the 2019 news phenomenon where a Facebook event was created to convince people to storm Area 51 to find aliens. The second joke refers to the Marvel film franchise and their penchant for extended scenes following the credits, in addition to Stan Lee’s real-life death. On the other hand, joke 3 makes light of a celebrity scandal, involving wordplay that requires the sequence "art"
