joke formats, from those that require an understanding of basic semantics and phonetics, to those that require esoteric knowledge of pop culture and news events, therefore assessing the models’ abilities to perform complex reasoning and knowledge retrieval.

We summarise our main contributions below. In presenting these contributions, we address the primary research questions of **(RQ1)** whether different joke formats have an impact on the ability of LLMs to explain humour and by extension, **(RQ2)** whether findings from existing work on computational humour are generalisable to the different jokes found in everyday life.

- We present a novel, balanced dataset of 600 jokes, categorised into puns, non-topical Reddit jokes, and topical Reddit jokes. Each joke is paired with a high-quality, succinct, human-authored reference explanation, enabling the first empirical assessment of how joke format affects the ability of LLMs to explain humour.[^2]

- We use the aforementioned dataset to assess the accuracy and completeness of 4800 joke explanations across 8 state-of-the-art open- and closed-source LLMs of various sizes, including reasoning models (600 jokes \* 8 models). We analyse these explanations using human evaluation and automatic metrics, including using an LLM judge.

- We qualitatively evaluate the models’ abilities to understand complex humour through LLM-generated explanations of a topical online joke in the form of a case study.

## 2 Related Works

**Humour Generation** Early humour generation efforts relied on simple template-based systems to create puns (Valitutti et al., 2013; Ritchie, 2005), whilst contemporary works fine-tune deep learning models on extensive datasets of existing jokes (Garimella et al., 2020; Weller et al., 2020; He et al., 2019; Petrović and Matthews, 2013). More recently, using different prompting strategies with LLMs has become the primary paradigm for generating jokes (Chen et al., 2024; Mittal et al., 2022). Furthermore, Sun et al. (2022b) presented CUP, which turned the focus away from standalone joke generation to context-situated generation. Additionally, work has also been performed on humour-adjacent language forms such as tongue-twisters (Loakman et al., 2025, 2023b; Keh et al., 2023).

**Humour Detection** Similarly, humour detection has evolved from using lexical and syntactic feature-based methods (van den Beukel and Aroyo, 2018) to training language-model-based classifiers (Meaney et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2020; Weller and Seppi, 2019). Ao et al. (2022) additionally present work using humour to aid in the detection of political parody, whilst Meaney (2020) and Loakman et al. (2023a) investigated the impact of demographic variables on humour perception. Furthermore, some works have approached humour detection from a multimodal standpoint, using elements such as audience laughter to aid in detection (Hasan et al., 2019).

**Humour Explanation** Lastly, humour explanation provides an account for why a given text is funny. Consequently, this task requires models to exhibit extensive reasoning capabilities. Whilst explaining standalone puns usually only requires a model to identify the pun word and its alternative interpretations in the given context, more complex jokes require an understanding of common sense, social constructs, and esoteric knowledge to identify key incongruities. Unlike the task of detection, explanation requires models to not only be able to identify humour, but also "understand" it to provide a textual explanation. Miller et al. (2017) presented a shared task concerning humour, in which subtask 3 pertains to humour interpretation by tasking models with assigning the correct WordNet sense keys to given instances of pun words. Lima Inácio et al. (2023) tackle the humour explanation task indirectly by investigating what specific elements humour classifiers learn. Regarding the production of natural language explanations, Hessel et al. (2023) perform the task of humour explanation on multimodal data from caption contests in The New Yorker, generating explanations as to why a particular best-rated caption is funny. Finally, Wang et al. (2025) investigate the ability of LLMs to explain a wide range of linguistic phenomena that require non-linear reasoning, such as tautologies and sarcasm.

Our work empirically investigates the performance gap for joke explanation on different types of humour, assessing the challenges presented by contemporary topical jokes in particular.

[^2]: We release our dataset and code at: https://github.com/tylerL404/Comparing-Apples-to-Oranges.
