humor on social media. *International Journal of Communication*, 9(0).

Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Antoine Roux, Arthur Mensch, Blanche Savary, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Emma Bou Hanna, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Bour, Guillaume Lample, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Lucile Saulnier, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Sandeep Subramanian, Sophia Yang, Szymon Antoniak, Teven Le Scao, Théophile Gervet, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, and William El Sayed. 2024. Mixtral of Experts. *arXiv preprint*.

Sedrick Scott Keh, Steven Y. Feng, Varun Gangal, Malihe Alikhani, and Eduard Hovy. 2023. PANCETTA: Phoneme aware neural completion to elicit tongue twisters automatically. In *Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 491–504, Dubrovnik, Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Seungone Kim, Juyoung Suk, Shayne Longpre, Bill Yuchen Lin, Jamin Shin, Sean Welleck, Graham Neubig, Moontae Lee, Kyungjae Lee, and Minjoon Seo. 2024. Prometheus 2: An Open Source Language Model Specialized in Evaluating Other Language Models. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4334–4353, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Klaus Krippendorff. 2019. Content analysis: An introduction to its methodology.

Liisi Laineste. 2002. Take it with a grain of salt: The kernel of truth in topical jokes. *Folklore: Electronic Journal of Folklore*, 21:7–25.

Marcio Lima Inácio, Gabriela Wick-pedro, and Hugo Gonçalo Oliveira. 2023. What do humor classifiers learn? an attempt to explain humor recognition models. In *Proceedings of the 7th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, pages 88–98, Dubrovnik, Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tyler Loakman, Aaron Maladry, and Chenghua Lin. 2023a. The iron(ic) melting pot: Reviewing human evaluation in humour, irony and sarcasm generation. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023*, pages 6676–6689, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tyler Loakman, Chen Tang, and Chenghua Lin. 2023b. TwistList: Resources and baselines for tongue twister generation. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 579–589, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tyler Loakman, Chen Tang, and Chenghua Lin. 2025. Train and constrain: Phonologically informed tongue twister generation from topics and paraphrases. *Computational Linguistics*, 51(2):415–466.

J. A. Meaney. 2020. Crossing the line: Where do demographic variables fit into humor detection? In *Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Student Research Workshop*, pages 176–181, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

J. A. Meaney, Steven Wilson, Luis Chiruzzo, Adam Lopez, and Walid Magdy. 2021. SemEval 2021 task 7: HaHackathon, detecting and rating humor and offense. In *Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2021)*, pages 105–119, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tristan Miller, Christian Hempelmann, and Iryna Gurevych. 2017. SemEval-2017 task 7: Detection and interpretation of English puns. In *Proceedings of the 11th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2017)*, pages 58–68, Vancouver, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Anirudh Mittal, Yufei Tian, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. AmbiPun: Generating humorous puns with ambiguous context. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 1053–1062, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Karl Pearson. 1895. Note on Regression and Inheritance in the Case of Two Parents. *Proceedings of the Royal Society of London Series I*, 58:240–242.

Saša Petrović and David Matthews. 2013. Unsupervised joke generation from big data. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 228–232, Sofia, Bulgaria. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Qwen, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang, Le Yu, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Tingyu Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuanchen Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. 2025. Qwen2.5 Technical Report. *arXiv preprint*.

Graeme Ritchie. 2005. Computational mechanisms for pun generation. In *Proceedings of the Tenth European Workshop on Natural Language Generation (ENLG-05)*, Aberdeen, Scotland. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Morgane Riviere, Shreya Pathak, Pier Giuseppe Sessa, Cassidy Hardin, Surya Bhupatiraju, et al. 2024. Gemma 2: Improving Open Language Models at a Practical Size. *arXiv preprint*.

Victor Sanh, Albert Webson, Colin Raffel, Stephen H. Bach, Lintang Sutawika, Zaid Alyafeai, Antoine Chaffin, Arnaud Stiegler, Teven Le Scao, Arun Raja,
