Importantly, all of the selected models were trained on data pertaining to events up to at least 2023, with all jokes in the *non-topical* and *topical* subsets being posted to Reddit between 2008 and 2019. Therefore, we are fairly assessing the ability of these models to explain jokes that reference events contained within their training data, investigating the models’ ability to correctly associate this knowledge with the abstract references made within topical jokes.

All models were tasked with producing an explanation around 100 words (based on the lengths of the gold standard explanations). Additional details, including the full prompt and specific models used, are presented in Appendix A.1.

### 4.3 Evaluation Criteria

To assess the quality of joke explanations generated by the models, we propose a scoring rubric with two core criteria, accuracy and completeness, each evaluated on a 6-point scale (0-5). Focusing on such criteria allows the application of the scoring rubric to all assessed joke types (such as real-world references in the *topical* subset constituting completeness, or pun word definitions in traditional puns). The rubric is presented below:

1. **Explanation Accuracy (0-5 points)**
   - **5 points:** The explanation is fully accurate, correctly identifying the joke’s main humour and context without errors.
   - **4 points:** The explanation is mostly accurate with minor errors or omissions that do not significantly impact understanding.
   - **3 points:** The explanation contains mostly correct elements but includes noticeable errors that may hinder understanding.
   - **2 points:** The explanation is largely inaccurate, with only a few correct points amidst significant errors.
   - **1 point:** The explanation is mostly incorrect, with minimal recognition of the joke’s intent.
   - **0 points:** The explanation is entirely incorrect, failing to identify the humour or context correctly.

2. **Explanation Completeness (0-5 points)**
   - **5 points:** The explanation is comprehensive, covering all relevant aspects and nuances.
   - **4 points:** The explanation covers most aspects but misses minor details.
   - **3 points:** The explanation addresses the central humorous element but omits some important details that maximise understanding.
   - **2 points:** The explanation is incomplete, addressing only basic aspects while missing significant details.
   - **1 point:** The explanation is minimal, covering only a small part of the joke.
   - **0 points:** The explanation is entirely superficial or irrelevant, failing to address any key components.

*Accuracy* entails whether or not the explanation contains correct material, and therefore does not negatively score content where parts of the joke have not been explained, but rather assesses the presence or absence of hallucinations and misunderstandings in a response. On the other hand, *Completeness* covers whether the fundamental elements of a joke have been addressed. Consequently, a joke may be fully explained (i.e., Completeness = 5), but additional information has been included which is incorrect (Accuracy ≈ 3). Conversely, an explanation may identify that a joke is a pun based on a specific word (i.e., Accuracy = 5), but omit explanations of the pun’s meanings or other required information for understanding (i.e., Completeness ≈ 2).

Due to the significant amount of time required for rating 4800 explanations (≈ 40 hours), 1 author (who is a native speaker of English and holds degrees in Linguistics) rated all explanations. However, a subset of 320 explanations (10 jokes \* 4 joke types \* 8 models) was re-annotated by 2 third-party computer science students (who are also native English speakers).[^5] These annotations were used exclusively to verify the primary evaluator’s reliability. The results showed moderate levels of agreement for both accuracy (α = .574) and completeness (α = .553) using Krippendorff’s alpha (Krippendorff, 2019), as well as high positive Pearson’s correlations (Pearson, 1895) between the scores assigned by the primary human evaluator and third-party evaluators for accuracy (r = .765) and completeness (r = .795), both with p < .001. Overall, 82% of the Accuracy scores and 84% of the Completeness scores from the primary evaluator and the 2 third-party evaluators differed by 0 or 1 points, resulting in an 80.5% agreement between the main evaluator and third-party evaluators when converted to a binary pass/fail (as in §5.1). Across the whole dataset, we

[^5]: Participants were given a 60 GBP Amazon voucher for approximately 3 hours of evaluation.
