arXiv:2507.13335v2 [cs.CL] 12 Sep 2025

# *Comparing Apples to Oranges:*<br>A Dataset & Analysis of LLM Humour Understanding<br>from Traditional Puns to Topical Jokes

Tyler Loakman<sup>1</sup>, William Thorne<sup>1</sup>, Chenghua Lin<sup>2</sup>  
<sup>1</sup>Department of Computer Science, The University of Sheffield, UK  
<sup>2</sup>Department of Computer Science, The University of Manchester, UK  
tcloakman1@sheffield.ac.uk  
wthorne1@sheffield.ac.uk  
chenghua.lin@manchester.ac.uk

## Abstract

Humour, as a complex language form, is derived from myriad aspects of life. Whilst existing work on computational humour has focussed almost exclusively on short pun-based jokes, we investigate whether the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to explain humour depends on the particular form. We compare models’ joke explanation abilities from simple puns to complex topical humour that requires esoteric knowledge of real-world entities and events. To this end, we curate a dataset of 600 jokes across 4 joke types and manually write high-quality explanations. These jokes include heterographic and homographic puns, contemporary internet humour, and topical jokes. Using this dataset, we compare the zero-shot abilities of a range of LLMs to accurately and comprehensively explain jokes of different types, identifying key research gaps in the task of humour explanation. We find that none of the tested models (including reasoning models) are capable of reliably generating adequate explanations of all joke types, further highlighting the narrow focus of most existing works on overly simple joke forms.<sup>1</sup>

## 1 Introduction

The perception and understanding of humour is essential to human interaction and entertainment. Consequently, the ability to correctly process jokes is paramount to achieving a human-like understanding of ambiguity and social context in language. However, most existing work on computational humour has narrowly focussed on the simpler task of humour detection (Loakman et al., 2023a; Meaney et al., 2021; Miller et al., 2017), which allows models to learn from confounding signals to detect certain joke types (Lima Inácio et al., 2023). On the other hand, humour *explanation* tasks a computational model with the more challenging objective of explicitly outlining how and why a presented text is humorous (Hessel et al., 2023).

<sup>1</sup>**CONTENT WARNING:** Some of the presented jokes may be considered offensive or distasteful to different individuals.

In addition to the general focus on joke detection, existing works on all humour processing tasks (i.e., detection, explanation, and generation) have mostly focussed on short-form puns such as "*Yesterday I accidentally swallowed some food colouring. The doctor says I’m OK, but I feel like I’ve dyed a little inside*" (He et al., 2019), where humour arises from the interpretation of the punning word (i.e., "dyed") with a phonetically similar word with different meaning (i.e., "died") in the case of heterographic puns, or the polysemy of a word for homographic puns (Attardo, 2008). Whilst puns are commonplace, the humour is primarily self-contained, requiring only a common-sense understanding of the world (e.g., that food colouring "dyes" things) and an understanding of the semantics of dictionary words (e.g., dye/die). On the other hand, much of the humour encountered online, on TV panel shows, and in stand-up comedy routines, is based on contemporary topical knowledge of evolving pop-culture phenomena and news events, where a full appreciation of the humour relies on potentially esoteric knowledge, rather than common-sense (Highfield, 2015; Laineste, 2002), requiring highly complex reasoning and knowledge retrieval.

We present examples of each joke type that we investigate in Figure 1. The *homographic* pun exploits the dual meaning of "croaked" as both a style of speech and a euphemism for dying; the *heterographic* pun relies on the phonetic similarity between "lint" and "leant"; the *non-topical* joke plays on the trope of an absentee father (not) returning like a boomerang; and the *topical* joke refers to the animal welfare organisation PETA’s high euthanasia rates and a reference to the movie Forrest Gump. Each joke type plays on polysemy, phonetics, social constructs, and esoteric knowledge, respectively.

To address this research gap, we assess the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to explain this range of joke forms in a zero-shot setting. As a result, we present the first work on assessing whether state-of-the-art LLMs are equally able to explain different
