phenomenon, thereby failing to inform the user of important context. Further discussion of explanation characteristics can be found in Appendix A.5.

## 8 Discussion

Firstly, regarding **H1**, that traditional puns will be easier for models to explain than highly-rated jokes from Reddit, we found this to be true, with the non-topical and topical subsets significantly impacting explanation success rates.

Similarly, **H2** concerned the hypothesis that homographic puns (which rely on polysemy) are easier to explain than heterographic puns, which was found to be the case in our tests. We observed that heterographic puns more frequently lead to hallucination (i.e., a lower accuracy score), owing to their reliance on phonetic characteristics, with LLMs having only implicit knowledge of how similar different words may "sound".

**H3** posited that the *topical* subset would present the most difficulty for LLMs. Our testing revealed a statistically significant decrease in explanation success rates for topical humour compared to all other joke formats, with many explanations falling short of correctly identifying contemporary real-world references.

Finally, **H4** stated that the larger models would outperform smaller variants. Our results showed that this was the case, with R1 70B outperforming R1 8B, GPT-4o outperforming Mini, Gemini Pro outperforming Gemini Flash, and Llama 70B outperforming Llama 8B.

As predicted, the performance discrepancy was most noticeable within the *topical* subset. Whilst these jokes were significantly shorter than the *non-topical* subset (see Figure 2), their reliance on subtle references to esoteric entities and events required the models to identify information that was not explicitly stated if they were to correctly identify the humour. This creates an environment ripe for hallucinations, as the models attempt to generate an explanation for a joke where they often cannot identify the location of the punchline without additional information. We further hypothesise that the larger models struggled less with topical jokes, relative to smaller models, due to the additional parameters allowing the storage of more specific knowledge that does not appear in the training data as frequently as common sense concepts (e.g., that hot things cause burns, or that sexual relations with a blood relative are taboo).

## 9 Conclusion

We presented the first empirical assessment of how well LLMs are able to explain the humour found within jokes of varying types, including simple puns and jokes that rely on contemporary topical knowledge. Our findings demonstrate that the primary focus on puns in prior work is not representative of the abilities of LLMs to accurately and comprehensively explain a more broad array of joke types. Furthermore, we also observe that no existing state-of-the-art models can consistently explain jokes of any type correctly.

### Limitations

In this work, we investigated the extent to which joke format and complexity affect the ability of LLMs to generate accurate and complete explanations. However, the nature of topical humour is that it is ever-evolving, with jokes relating to developing news stories and pop culture events continuously appearing. Consequently, our work focuses only on a subset of possible jokes and does not assess the ability of models to explain highly recent jokes, of which there may be only limited knowledge contained within a given model’s training data (as the volume of reporting and discussion on a given topic grows over time).

Additionally, we performed a comparatively small-scale analysis of 600 jokes (150 per type). Whilst this is necessary to enable manual human assessment of the generated explanations as well as facilitate the authoring of gold-standard reference explanations, a wider range of jokes would allow deeper insight.

Due to the jokes being from secondary sources (i.e., not novel jokes written for the purpose of this work), it is likely that the majority of the jokes have been seen before by the LLMs. However, explanations relating to these jokes are much less likely to be present. For the Reddit jokes in particular, the presence of explanations in the training data is reliant on individual Reddit users asking for an explanation within the relevant thread, and someone replying. Whilst this is possible, we sorted the r/Jokes dataset based on upvotes, and intuitively it is less likely that popular jokes require explanations, with Reddit’s userbase already possessing the required knowledge in most cases (hence the jokes receiving a significant amount of upvotes). We manually verified a subset of the jokes and found readily available explanations to be rare.

Whilst a substantial portion of our evaluation is performed by 1 author, we robustly prove the reliability of the evaluation through comparisons with third-party annotators and an LLM-judge. Owing to using
