Likert scales with a degree of inherent subjectivity, agreement statistics in the interval between 0.4 and 0.6 are considered good, whilst our general correlations among the different methods are very high.

Finally, myriad joke formats exist, and more fine-grained categorisation of joke types is possible.

## Ethics Statement

We believe in and firmly adhere to the Code of Conduct in the performance of this work and the methods involved. Whilst the dataset element of our benchmark contains potentially offensive materials (reflecting the often controversial nature of humour found on Reddit), the aim of this resource is to offer explanations of potentially esoteric jokes in order to clarify where particular parties may be perceiving humour from. In this work, we do not create novel humour, nor present the included dataset as appropriate for training humour generation models. Whilst detoxifying and debiasing language models is a growing interest in the NLP community, humans are fundamentally opinionated and biased in ways that others may take offence at. Whilst we agree language models should not perpetuate these biases, the authors of this work believe that, if queried, language models should be able to make use of knowledge pertaining to human beliefs and opinions in offering impartial, objective explanations of phenomena such as humour. We therefore do not view the creation of an *explanation* for a joke to be equatable with an *endorsement* of said joke, but rather as an ideologically neutral task. We additionally consciously write our humour explanations in an objective manner, not lending unjust credence to unverified scandals or presenting opinions as facts. The study was approved by the internal ethics board of the lead author’s institution, and all evaluators were provided with a participant information sheet and consent form.

## Acknowledgments

Tyler Loakman is supported by the Centre for Doctoral Training in Speech and Language Technologies (SLT) and their Applications funded by UK Research and Innovation [grant number EP/S023062/1].

## References

Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, et al. 2024. Gpt-4 technical report. *Preprint*, arXiv:2303.08774.

Xiao Ao, Danae Sanchez Villegas, Daniel Preotiuc-Pietro, and Nikolaos Aletras. 2022. Combining humor and sarcasm for improving political parody detection. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 1800–1807, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Salvatore Attardo. 2008. *A primer for the linguistics of humor*, pages 101–156. De Gruyter Mouton, Berlin, New York.

Yang Chen, Chong Yang, Tu Hu, Xinhao Chen, Man Lan, Li Cai, Xinlin Zhuang, Xuan Lin, Xin Lu, and Aimin Zhou. 2024. Are U a joke master? pun generation via multi-stage curriculum learning towards a humor LLM. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics ACL 2024*, pages 878–890, Bangkok, Thailand and virtual meeting. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, et al. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models. *Preprint*, arXiv:2407.21783.

Aparna Garimella, Carmen Banea, Nabil Hossain, and Rada Mihalcea. 2020. “judge me by my size (noun), do you?” YodaLib: A demographic-aware humor generation framework. In *Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics*, pages 2814–2825, Barcelona, Spain (Online). International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Petko Georgiev, Ving Ian Lei, Ryan Burnell, Libin Bai, Anmol Gulati, et al. 2024. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across millions of tokens of context. *Preprint*, arXiv:2403.05530.

Md Kamrul Hasan, Wasifur Rahman, AmirAli Bagher Zadeh, Jianyu Zhong, Md Iftekhar Tanveer, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Mohammed (Ehsan) Hoque. 2019. UR-FUNNY: A multimodal language dataset for understanding humor. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 2046–2056, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

He He, Nanyun Peng, and Percy Liang. 2019. Pun generation with surprise. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 1734–1744, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jack Hessel, Ana Marasović, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 688–714, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tim Highfield. 2015. Tweeted joke lifespans and appropriated punch lines: Practices around topical
