"common sense" (e.g., cultural norms). Both the *topical* and *non-topical* subsets are checked by another linguist, who is not an author of this work, to ensure their correct categorisation. In effect, the 300 jokes that form the *topical* and *non-topical* categories are the top 300 highest-scoring jokes based on upvote-downvote ratio, categorised by their content.

### 3.5 Traditional Puns

We source an additional 300 simple pun-based jokes from SemEval 2017 Task 7 (Miller et al., 2017), which has acted as the source data for many works on computational humour. Specifically, we take the first 150 jokes from both the homographic and heterographic training data for Subtask 3 as the basis of the *homographic* and *heterographic* joke subsets.

The jokes contained within the *topical* and *non-topical* subsets from Reddit may rely on the features of heterographic or homographic puns. However, the interpretation of these puns requires additional real-world knowledge besides the meaning of the pun words. For example, "*New Teslas don’t come with a new car smell. They come with an Elon Musk.*", requires knowledge regarding Elon Musk’s relationship to Tesla.

### 3.6 Ground Truth Joke Explanations

As a central contribution, we write ground-truth explanations for all jokes. Due to being written by an author of this work, we perform quality control using 3 native English-speaking computer science students. Each evaluator assessed 200 joke explanations (50 per type), each seeing different jokes.[^4] We evaluate these explanations using the same evaluation criteria used for human evaluation in §5 (with the rubric presented in Appendix A.3), using a 0-5 Likert scale on the criteria of explanation accuracy and completeness. All evaluators scored all human-authored explanations a maximum score of 5 on both criteria or commented on required improvements, which were implemented. Minor explanation post-editing was required for less than 1% of explanations. Further details are in Appendix A.1.

### 3.7 Additional Dataset Features

We also present URLs to webpages containing the relevant knowledge required to understand jokes from the *topical* subset, including Wikipedia pages, news articles, and blog posts. We include phonetic transcriptions of all jokes after identifying model hallucinations stemming from a lack of phonetic knowledge (details in Appendix A.2). Neither of these fields are used in the following analyses.

[^4]: Participants were given a 30 GBP Amazon voucher for approximately 1.5 hours of evaluation.

## 4 Methodology

In the following section, we present our hypotheses relating to the research questions posed in §1, in addition to the models that we evaluate and our scoring criteria for the explanations.

### 4.1 Hypotheses

To answer the research questions presented in the introduction, we pose the following hypotheses:

- **H1.** Traditional puns (homographic and heterographic) will be easier for LLMs to explain than high-rated jokes from Reddit, owing to the former’s frequent reliance on the semantics and phonetics of common words.
- **H2.** Heterographic puns will be more difficult for models to explain than homographic puns due to the former’s reliance on phonetic similarity, which is not explicitly encoded in orthographic text.
- **H3.** Topical humour will be more difficult for models to explain than non-topical Reddit humour, due to the former’s reliance on subtle references to contemporary pop culture and events, rather than common sense reasoning and general knowledge.
- **H4.** Larger model variants will perform better than smaller variants, particularly for topical humour, due to being able to store larger amounts of information in their parameters regarding specific events and individuals, whilst smaller models focus on retaining common general knowledge.

### 4.2 Models

To assess the ability of state-of-the-art LLMs in this task, we select the following suite of open- and closed-source models: **Llama 3.1** (8B and 70B) (Dubey et al., 2024), **Gemini 1.5** (Pro and Flash) (Georgiev et al., 2024), **GPT-4o** (standard and Mini) (Achiam et al., 2024). These models represent a range of sizes, using both the flagship large variants and their lightweight counterparts, allowing the investigation of model size on performance in this task. We additionally use variants of **DeepSeek-R1** to identify the abilities of reasoning-specific models. Specifically, we use the distilled 8B and 70B variants that are based upon Llama 3.1 and 3.3, respectively.
