et al. (2019); Ju et al. (2021), who use IB for unsupervised summarization. In this work, we extend the IB principle to multimodal humor understanding to identify relevant LLM world knowledge.

## 3 BOTTLEHUMOR

Given a humoristic image along with an accompanying text (*caption*), our goal is to generate a descriptive explanation of the humor. For example, in Figure 2, a fairy woman with a plunger looking at a boy can be humorously explained as “The humor comes from a fairy with a plunger, taking a side job because of a tough economy” (from the NewYorker dataset; Hessel et al., 2023).

We propose BOTTLEHUMOR (Figure 2), a multi-hop reasoning method inspired by the IB principle (Sec. 3.1). We integrate the visual and textual components to generate implications (Sec. 3.2). We then select the most useful implications by employing the IB principle (Sec. 3.3), and add them to the input to generate candidate explanations (Sec. 3.4). This iterative process alternates between refining implications and explanations.

### 3.1 The Information Bottleneck Principle

We use the Information Bottleneck principle (IB; Tishby et al., 1999) to select useful implications in BOTTLEHUMOR. IB aims to extract the most relevant information from a given input variable while minimizing redundancy. Specifically, IB seeks to compress the input source $S$ into a representation $\hat{S}$ while retaining the information most relevant to predicting the target $Y$. This objective is formulated as minimizing the following equation:

$$
I(S,\hat{S}) - \alpha I(\hat{S},Y)
$$

where $I$ denotes mutual information, and $\alpha$ is a parameter to balance compression term $I(S,\hat{S})$ with relevance term $I(\hat{S},Y)$.

### 3.2 Eliciting Multi-Hop Implications

First, we generate a set of natural language implications of the input. The goal of this step is to discover connections across different objects, concepts, and situations described in the input.

**Image Descriptions.** As a first step, we provide the image $I$ to a VLM to generate a detailed *image description* $D$, focusing on the scene and objects while ignoring the humoristic meaning behind the image. We limit the description to a maximum of five sentences.

**Implications.** Using these descriptions, the VLM elicits *implications*: commonsense knowledge, social norms, and possible connections for the objects in the description $D$ and the caption $C$. Implications generated at hop $h$ are denoted as $P^h = \{p_1^h, p_2^h, \ldots, p_j^h\}$.

In the first hop, the implications are derived from the image $I$, its caption $C$, and a subset of two image descriptions $D$, selected via a sliding window to balance efficiency (i.e., input length and cost) and coverage. From the second hop onward, we provide the VLM with *candidate explanations* (see below) and one of the previously selected top-$k$ implications (Sec. 3.3).

When the number of generated implications exceeds 15, we cluster them using sentence embeddings and select the implications closest to each cluster’s centroid. This step reduces redundancy while preserving diversity.

**Candidate Explanations.** To guide implication selection for generating the correct output, we provide the image $I$ and caption $C$ to the VLM to generate a set of *candidate explanations* at each hop: $R^h = \{r_1^h, r_2^h, \ldots, r_k^h\}$. One candidate explanation acts as an initial hypothesis, refined iteratively when additional information (implications) becomes available. In the first hop, we generate candidate explanations by providing the VLM with the image $I$, caption $C$, and descriptions $D$. From the second hop onward, we condition—in addition to the previous inputs—on each of the $k$ implications selected in the previous hop (§3.3) to generate $k$ candidate explanations. The prompts used for generating image descriptions, implications, and candidate explanations are in Appendix F.

### 3.3 Selecting and Refining Useful Implications

We aim to select the top $k$ most useful implications at each hop, which should add meaningful information beyond the image and caption while providing relevant context for generating a target response. These requirements lend themselves to the two core IB components: compression and relevance.

**Compression.** The compression term is used to ensure that new implications provide additional information beyond what is already known. We measure the redundancy of each implication generated in the current hop $h$, $\{P_j^h\}_{j=1}^J$ with the inputs $X^h = \{C, D, P^{h-1}\}$, which include the image, caption, and implications generated at previous hops (when applicable). We can think of this as
