our method, and justifies the use of the IB principle. We further propose an LLM-based evaluation framework and an adaptation of an interpretability technique. While we tested our contributions in the context of humor interpretation, future work can adapt them to any task that can benefit from eliciting and reasoning on world knowledge.

## Limitations

**Subjective nature of humor understanding.** Individuals may interpret humor differently based on their personal background knowledge. While we find that the reference in the data is likely the most representative interpretation of the humor in the image and caption, other interpretations can also be valid, which are not captured in our scores.

**Evaluation of explanations.** Humor explanations are often nuanced and subtle. While breaking down the explanation into atomic sentences helps the model verify the accuracy and relevance of each claim, it may overlook the nuanced meaning that emerges when all the sentences are combined.

**Trade-off between interpretability and efficiency.** Our method emphasizes interpretable, step-by-step controllable reasoning for the humor explanation tasks, but this comes with increased resource cost. While the computational cost can be managed by limiting the number of implications or image descriptions, the increased cost remains an inherent trade-off for incorporating interpretable reasoning steps. In contrast, less interpretable or controllable approaches may offer greater efficiency. Each call typically involves ≤500 input tokens and ≤128 output tokens, with up to 20 calls per sample. For 100 samples, this results in an estimated total cost of up to \$4–5 USD using GPT-4o and up to \$1 USD using Gemini-Flash-1.5-8B.

## Ethics Statement

**Data.** All datasets used in our work, MemeCap, NewYorker, and YesBut, are publicly available. The datasets include images, accompanying texts, and humor interpretations collected from humans and may contain offensive content to some people.

**Models.** The LLMs and VLMs we used for the experiments are trained on a large-scale web corpora and some of them utilize human feedback. Given their training sources, they could potentially generate content (i.e., descriptions, implications, and explanations) that exhibit societal biases.

**Data Collection.** We use CloudResearch to collect judgments about model-generated explanations in order to validate our proposed automatic evaluation method. To ensure the quality of evaluation, we required that workers were located in English-speaking countries (e.g. US, UK, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand), and had an acceptance rate of at least 93% on 1,000 prior annotations. We paid \$0.20 for the evaluation task, which means that annotators were compensated with an average hourly wage of \$13, which is comparable to the US minimum wage. We did not use any personal information from annotators. We obtained ethics approval from our institution’s research ethics board prior to running the study.

## Acknowledgements

This work was funded, in part, by the Vector Institute for AI, Canada CIFAR AI Chairs program, Accelerate Foundation Models Research Program Award from Microsoft, an NSERC discovery grant, and a research gift from AI2. We thank Jack Hessel, Benyamin Movassagh, Sahithya Ravi, Aditya Chinchure, and Vasile Negrescu for insightful discussions and feedback.

## References

Marah Abdin, Jyoti Aneja, Hany Awadalla, Ahmed Awadallah, Ammar Ahmad Awan, Nguyen Bach, Amit Bahree, Arash Bakhtiari, Jianmin Bao, Harkirat Behl, Alon Benhaim, Misha Bilenko, Johan Björck, Sébastien Bubeck, Martin Cai, Qin Cai, Vishrav Chaudhary, Dong Chen, Dongdong Chen, Weizhu Chen, Yen-Chun Chen, Yi-Ling Chen, Hao Cheng, Parul Chopra, Xiyang Dai, Matthew Dixon, Ronen Eldan, Victor Fragoso, Jianfeng Gao, Mei Gao, Min Gao, Amit Garg, Allie Del Giorno, Abhishek Goswami, Suriya Gunasekar, Emman Haider, Junheng Hao, Russell J. Hewett, Wenxiang Hu, Jamie Huynh, Dan Iter, Sam Ade Jacobs, Mojan Javaheripi, Xin Jin, Nikos Karampatziakis, Piero Kauffmann, Mahoud Khademi, Dongwoo Kim, Young Jin Kim, Lev Kurilenko, James R. Lee, Yin Tat Lee, Yuanzhi Li, Yunsheng Li, Chen Liang, Lars Liden, Xihui Lin, Zeqi Lin, Ce Liu, Liyuan Liu, Mengchen Liu, Weishung Liu, Xiaodong Liu, Chong Luo, Piyush Madan, Ali Mahmoudzadeh, David Majercak, Matt Mazzola, Caio César Teodoro Mendes, Arindam Mitra, Hardik Modi, Anh Nguyen, Brandon Norick, Barun Patra, Daniel Perez-Becker, Thomas Portet, Reid Pryzant, Heyang Qin, Marko Radmilac, Liliang Ren, Gustavo de Rosa, Corby Rosset, Sambudha Roy, Olatunji Ruwase, Olli Saarikivi, Amin Saied, Adil Salim, Michael Santacroce, Shital Shah, Ning Shang, Hiteshi Sharma, Yelong Shen, Swadheen Shukla, Xia Song, Masahiro Tanaka, Andrea Tupini, Praneetha
