Carlo Shapley value estimation, to a sentence-level variation that we refer to as SentenceSHAP (see Appendix B for details). This approach visualizes each sentence’s contribution to the final explanation, as shown in Figure 3. The explanation from ZS misses the humor in the long CVS receipt that the officer is holding as a badge of honor, while BOTTLEHUMOR is directly informed by the top implication.

## 5.3 Assessment of the IB Framework

**IB component analysis.** We focus on GPT4o, the best performing model across all datasets, and analyze the contribution of each IB component in our method through ablation tests. We evaluate four implication selection approaches (iterative refinement; Sec. 3.3): (1) *Random*, where implications are selected randomly; (2) *Cosine*, which selects implications with the lowest cosine similarity to the previous inputs; (3) *CE*, which selects implications that yield the lowest cross-entropy value when we condition on them to generate the candidate explanations; and (4) *Cosine+CE*, our method presented in Sec. 3.3 that combines cosine similarity and cross-entropy based on the IB principle. We conduct the analysis on 100 random instances from each dataset. Figure 4 shows that *Cosine+CE* method outperforms the *Cosine* and *CE* baselines, improving $F_1$ score by 4.8 and 2.3 points, respectively, confirming the importance of balancing reducing redundancy with increasing the signal.

**Quality of intermediate explanations.** To analyze whether the candidate explanations improve across iterations, we randomly sample 50 examples from each dataset and their outputs generated by GPT-4o and Flash1.5. Since each iteration generates three candidate explanations, we report the highest $F_1$ score among them, and the corresponding precision and recall values in Table 3. For GPT-4o, $F_1$ scores consistently improve across iterations, primarily driven by recall, which increases by an average of 11.4 points at $h_2$ compared to the initial hop. Precision also improves significantly at $h_1$, averaging an 8.0 point gain across datasets, then stabilizes. A similar trend is observed in Flash1.5-8B, a considerably smaller model, except for the MemeCap, where $F_1$ scores peak at $h_1$ but decrease by 2.5 points at $h_2$. While precision remains similar at the final hop compared to $h_1$, recall drops by 2.4 points, suggesting smaller models are more susceptible to noisy information as iterations progress.

[Figure: Bar chart comparing Precision, Recall, and F1 Score for Random, Cosine, CE, and Cosine+CE. Values shown: Random 74.5/31.9/44.7; Cosine 77.2/33.5/46.7; CE 77.6/36/49.2; Cosine+CE 81.6/37.6/51.5.]

Figure 4: Performance of GPT4o on different IB components.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th colspan="3">GPT4o</th>
<th colspan="3">Flash1.5</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th>h<sub>0</sub></th>
<th>h<sub>1</sub></th>
<th>h<sub>2</sub></th>
<th>h<sub>0</sub></th>
<th>h<sub>1</sub></th>
<th>h<sub>2</sub></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td rowspan="3">MC</td>
<td>P</td>
<td>88.5</td>
<td><strong>92.7</strong></td>
<td><strong>92.7</strong></td>
<td>81.0</td>
<td>92.2</td>
<td><strong>92.3</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>R</td>
<td>35.6</td>
<td>47.0</td>
<td><strong>48.5</strong></td>
<td>21.0</td>
<td><strong>35.0</strong></td>
<td>32.6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>$F_1$</td>
<td>50.8</td>
<td>62.4</td>
<td><strong>63.6</strong></td>
<td>33.3</td>
<td><strong>50.7</strong></td>
<td>48.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="3">NY</td>
<td>P</td>
<td>79.6</td>
<td><strong>86.5</strong></td>
<td>84.7</td>
<td>72.2</td>
<td><strong>83.5</strong></td>
<td><strong>83.5</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>R</td>
<td>50.6</td>
<td>57.9</td>
<td><strong>62.8</strong></td>
<td>22.9</td>
<td>33.4</td>
<td><strong>34.7</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>$F_1$</td>
<td>61.9</td>
<td>69.4</td>
<td><strong>72.1</strong></td>
<td>34.8</td>
<td>47.7</td>
<td><strong>49.0</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="3">YB</td>
<td>P</td>
<td>67.2</td>
<td><strong>82.3</strong></td>
<td>82.0</td>
<td>81.0</td>
<td>92.2</td>
<td><strong>92.3</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>R</td>
<td>48.2</td>
<td>56.2</td>
<td><strong>57.6</strong></td>
<td>26.2</td>
<td>36.8</td>
<td><strong>38.1</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>$F_1$</td>
<td>56.2</td>
<td>66.8</td>
<td><strong>67.6</strong></td>
<td>39.6</td>
<td>52.6</td>
<td><strong>54.0</strong></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 3: Precision, Recall, and $F_1$ scores on intermediate explanations across hops. h stands for hop. In our experiments, hop $h = 0$ corresponds to $k = 0$ (no implications), $h = 1$ allows up to $k = 3$ implications, and $h = 2$ allows up to $k = 6$ implications.

**Error analysis.** We manually analyzed 40 randomly sampled explanations across different models where implications negatively impacted performance. The two most common errors are: dilution of focus (81.2%) and introducing irrelevant information (18.7%). Dilution of focus occurs when implications repeat the same concept multiple times or include overly generalized statements that override more specific details. Irrelevant information, such as common phrases unrelated to the humor can also distort the explanation. See Appendix C for examples analyzed using SentenceSHAP.

## 6 Conclusions

We introduced BOTTLEHUMOR, an unsupervised method inspired by the information bottleneck principle that addresses humor explanation tasks by eliciting relevant knowledge from VLMs and iteratively refining the explanation. Our experiments show that BOTTLEHUMOR outperforms a range of baselines on three datasets, underscoring the importance of incorporating relevant world knowledge in humor understanding. Our analysis offers insights into the impact of individual components in
