method inspired by the information bottleneck (IB) principle. BOTTLEHUMOR leverages VLMs to generate and iteratively refine implications and explanations from an image and text, selecting those most relevant for explaining the humor in the image and maximizing information gain. As an off-the-shelf method, it is applicable to any VLM.

We evaluate BOTTLEHUMOR on three multimodal humor explanation datasets: MemeCap (Hwang and Shwartz, 2023), New Yorker (Hessel et al., 2023), and YesBut (Nandy et al., 2024). Prior work relied on reference-based automatic metrics that overlook lexical variability and the open-endedness of explanations and costly human evaluation. Leveraging the strong text understanding capabilities of LLMs, we propose new automatic evaluation metrics that resemble precision and recall, and better correlate with human judgments. BOTTLEHUMOR improves $F_1$ by up to 8.2, 4.3, and 2.8 points on MemeCap, New Yorker, and YesBut, respectively, compared to zero-shot baselines and outperforms existing self-refine methods that merely iterate on and refine the explanation without generating intermediate implications. Our results highlight the importance of incorporating implications, paving the way for future research on incorporating diverse world knowledge in complex reasoning tasks.[^1]

## 2 Related Work

**Multimodal Humor Understanding.** Earlier works on humor understanding primarily focus on detection in images and videos (Chandrasekaran et al., 2016; Castro et al., 2019; Patro et al., 2021). Recent work shifted to generative tasks, typically explaining humor in an image (Hwang and Shwartz, 2023; Hessel et al., 2023; Nandy et al., 2024) or video (Hyun et al., 2024; Hasan et al., 2019). Understanding and explanation generation remain underexplored due to the complexity of the task and free-text evaluation. The V-Flute dataset (Saakyan et al., 2024) addresses this by re-casting this as predicting whether an image containing humorous elements or visual metaphors *entails* a given description, while providing justification. We focus on the generative version of this task, proposing a method to enhance humor explanation and a framework for automatic evaluation.

**Iterative LLM-based Reasoning.** Many methods elicit knowledge from the LLM for intermediate reasoning steps. Shwartz et al. (2020) elicited clarification questions and answers, then incorporated these in the input. Modern Few-shot prompting removed the need for supervision for these explanations (Marasovic et al., 2022; Wiegreffe et al., 2022). One popular approach is Chain-of-Thought (CoT; Wei et al., 2022). CoT steers LLMs to generate intermediate reasoning steps towards the final answer, improving multi-step arithmetic, commonsense, and symbolic reasoning tasks. Relevant successor approaches include self-refine (Madaan et al., 2023) which prompts LLMs to iteratively improve their answers with self-generated feedback. Eliciting knowledge from LLMs to improve predictions has been used for opinion understanding (Hwang et al., 2024; Hoyle et al., 2023), factuality (Akyürek et al., 2024), and consistency (Liang et al., 2024).

CoT has been adapted to the vision and language setting (Zhang et al., 2024) by adding external knowledge (Mondal et al., 2024), extracting a scene graph (Mitra et al., 2024), or using visual sketches as intermediate reasoning steps (Hu et al., 2024a). Most existing works focus on benchmarks such as ScienceQA (Lu et al., 2022) and visual commonsense reasoning (Schwenk et al., 2022), with (a) definitive/objective answers; and (b) simple evaluation metrics (e.g., ScienceQA is multiple-choice). We focus on multimodal explanation generation tasks in which the answers are open-ended and nuanced. As in CoT, we elicit intermediate reasoning steps from the models, but propose a novel method using the information bottleneck principle to guide generation and selection of useful knowledge for a correct explanation.

**Information Bottleneck Principle.** The Information Bottleneck principle (IB; Tishby et al., 1999), based on information theory, extracts relevant information from an input while minimizing redundancy (Sec. 3.1). It has been applied to a wide range of tasks (Ben-Shaul et al., 2023), including representation learning (Wu et al., 2020; Lee et al., 2021), deep learning (Saxe et al., 2018; Kawaguchi et al., 2023), summarization (West et al., 2019; Ju et al., 2021; Li et al., 2021), speech recognition (Hecht et al., 2009), and multimodal learning (Mai et al., 2023; Fang et al., 2024). Most prior works apply the IB principle during training to learn useful feature representations, with the exception of West

[^1]: Our code and data are available at:  
https://github.com/eujhwang/bottle-humor
