Vered Shwartz, Peter West, Ronan Le Bras, Chandra Bhagavatula, and Yejin Choi. 2020. Unsupervised commonsense question answering with self-talk. In *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*, pages 4615–4629, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

David Stauffer. 1999. Let the good times roll: Building a fun culture. *Harvard Management Update*.

Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja Hauth, Katie Millican, et al. 2023. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.11805*.

Naftali Tishby, Fernando C. Pereira, and William Bialek. 1999. The information bottleneck method. In *Proc. of the 37-th Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control and Computing*, pages 368–377.

Laurel Klinger Vartabedian, Robert A.; Vartabedian. 1993. *The Annual Meeting of the Speech Communication Association*.

Melissa Wanzer, Ann Frymier, and Jeffrey Irwin. 2010. An explanation of the relationship between instructor humor and student learning: Instructional humor processing theory. *Communication Education - COMMUN EDUC*, 59:1–18.

Caleb Warren, Adam Barsky, and A Peter Mcgraw. 2020. What makes things funny? an integrative review of the antecedents of laughter and amusement. *Personality and Social Psychology Review*, 25:41 – 65.

Caleb Warren and A. Peter Mcgraw. 2015. Opinion: What makes things humorous. *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences*, 112:7105–7106.

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, brian ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, volume 35, pages 24824–24837. Curran Associates, Inc.

Peter West, Ari Holtzman, Jan Buys, and Yejin Choi. 2019. BottleSum: Unsupervised and self-supervised sentence summarization using the information bottleneck principle. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 3752–3761, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Sarah Wiegreffe, Jack Hessel, Swabha Swayamdipta, Mark Riedl, and Yejin Choi. 2022. Reframing human-AI collaboration for generating free-text explanations. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 632–658, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tailin Wu, Hongyu Ren, Pan Li, and Jure Leskovec. 2020. Graph information bottleneck. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, volume 33, pages 20437–20448. Curran Associates, Inc.

An Yang, Baosong Yang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Chengpeng Li, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Guanting Dong, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, Jialin Wang, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Ma, Jianxin Yang, Jin Xu, Jingren Zhou, Jinze Bai, Jinzheng He, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Chen, Kexin Yang, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Na Ni, Pei Zhang, Peng Wang, Ru Peng, Rui Men, Ruize Gao, Runji Lin, Shijie Wang, Shuai Bai, Sinan Tan, Tianhang Zhu, Tianhao Li, Tianyu Liu, Wenbin Ge, Xiaodong Deng, Xiaohuan Zhou, Xingzhang Ren, Xinyu Zhang, Xipin Wei, Xuancheng Ren, Xuejing Liu, Yang Fan, Yang Yao, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan, Yunfei Chu, Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, Zhifang Guo, and Zhihao Fan. 2024. Qwen2 technical report. *Preprint*, arXiv:2407.10671.

Jiayi Ye, Yanbo Wang, Yue Huang, Dongping Chen, Qihui Zhang, Nuno Moniz, Tian Gao, Werner Geyer, Chao Huang, Pin-Yu Chen, Nitesh V Chawla, and Xiangliang Zhang. 2024. Justice or prejudice? quantifying biases in llm-as-a-judge. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.02736*.

Zhuosheng Zhang, Aston Zhang, Mu Li, hai zhao, George Karypis, and Alex Smola. 2024. Multimodal chain-of-thought reasoning in language models. *Transactions on Machine Learning Research*.

## A Dataset Examples

Figure 5 illustrates example data instances from MemeCap, NewYorker, and YesBut.

## B SentenceSHAP

In this section, we introduce SentenceSHAP, an adaptation of TokenSHAP (Horovicz and Goldshmidt, 2024). While TokenSHAP calculates the importance of individual tokens, SentenceSHAP estimates the importance of individual sentences in the input prompt. The importance score is calculated using Monte Carlo Shapley Estimation, following the same principles as TokenSHAP.

Given an input prompt $X = \{x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_n\}$, where $x_i$ represents a sentence, we generate all possible combinations of $X$ by excluding each sentence $x_i$ (i.e., $X - \{x_i\}$). Let $Z$ represent the set of all combinations where each $x_i$ is removed. To estimate Shapley values efficiently, we randomly
