text. This requires a process that can provide a human thinking process to reconstruct the translated text.

Therefore, to address the challenge of humour translation across different languages, we propose a novel Humour Decomposition Mechanism (HDM) to improve linguistic interference, which introduces a three-step paradigm through the Chain-of-Thoughts (CoT) prompting method [37, 43] by utilising LLMs: (1) mining intrinsic knowledge related to the joke; (2) translating the intrinsic knowledge text; and (3) constructing a new joke based on the translated content. This method mimics a human thinking process for understanding, translating and generating, which allows reconstructing the translated text. Furthermore, to enhance humour in translated texts, we integrate humour theory into intrinsic knowledge by defining corresponding topics, angles, and punchlines. This approach enables the model to perform humour translations effectively based on the mined knowledge.

We use the *Estimation Metric Based Assessment* (GEMBA) [22], a type of LLM evaluation, to assess humour, fluency and coherence. Experimental results reveal that our method is demonstrably superior to existing solutions, showing an average improvement of 7.75% in humour, 2.81% in fluency, and 6.13% in coherence from English to Chinese. These findings indicate that the approach effectively mitigates humour loss and linguistic interference. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:

– We propose an efficient Humour Decomposition Mechanism to guide LLMs to translate jokes, mimicking the human thought process.  
– This work is the first attempt to incorporate the Psychological theory of constructing humour into the Chain-of-Thought process to improve the humour factors.  
– The extensive experimental results demonstrate that our approach surpasses existing frameworks with respect to humour, fluency, and coherence, alleviating the problems of humour loss and linguistic interference.

## 2 Related Work

### 2.1 Humour Theory

The incongruity theory [27] believes that the key to humour is the incongruity between readers’ expectations and the ending of one story [4]. Toplyn [32] further proposes the monologue joke generation theory, which defines the structure of a joke as the topic, angle and punchline. There are currently some studies that incorporate humour theory into natural language processing for humour generation [7] and humour recognition [3, 21]. According to this theory, we will explore how to translate the jokes across different languages.

### 2.2 Translation for LLMs

Extensive research has been conducted to evaluate the translation capabilities of LLMs. Some people study issues specific to LLMs, including the selection
