| Model | SQM-H base | SQM-H ours | SQM-F base | SQM-F ours | SQM-C base | SQM-C ours |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Marco-o1-7B | 50.45 | **54.40** | 91.60 | **93.75** | **84.80** | 84.00 |
| Llama3.1-8B-Instruct | 49.25 | **57.20** | **93.00** | 92.60 | **84.20** | 81.70 |
| Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct | **39.80** | 28.70 | 86.40 | **89.10** | 74.30 | **80.50** |
| Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct | 51.40 | **60.50** | 92.50 | **94.10** | 85.60 | **85.95** |
| Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct | 51.60 | **61.80** | 91.40 | **97.40** | 86.00 | **91.35** |

Table 4: Generality analysis of automatic metric in translating from English to Chinese in different open-source models.

**Does HDM work well on open-source models?** We also evaluate the performance of our methods using open-source models. Table 4 presents the results for humour, fluency, and coherence on the Short Joke dataset, using mainstream open-source models: Qwen2.5-(0.5B, 7B, 14B) [39], Llama3.1-8B-Instruct [^7] and Marco-o1-7B [44]. We observe a significant decline in the evaluation scores for LLMs with smaller parameter sizes, especially for SQM-H. This may be attributed to their limited capacity to capture the intrinsic humorous semantics of the source text during the humour decomposition and humour composition, thereby impairing the humour quality of the final output.

## 5.2 Prompt Selection

We also validate the robustness of the zero-shot Humour Decomposition Mechanism against the different humour translation prompting.

Figure 3 illustrates the performance of four different prompts in HDM by using GPT4-Turbo. The experimental findings reveal that despite fluctuations in GEMBA-SQM evaluation of reasoning across different prompts, all humour translation prompts consistently enhance performance compared to the traditional CoT approach. This further demonstrates the generalizability and effectiveness of the method, rather than its reliance on specific prompts.

## 5.3 Ablation Study

This analysis aims to investigate the effects of the results on Humour Theory and the Humour Decomposition Mechanism. We randomly select 100 samples to conduct the ablation study, as shown in Table 5, where:

– “-HT” denotes removing the part of humour theory. Our approach will only use the analyzes for the intermediary stage.  
– “-HDM” denotes removing the Humour Decomposition Mechanism. We directly input the prompt of decomposing humour to conduct the translation.  
– “base” denotes both removing the Humour Decomposition Mechanism and humour theory.

[^7]: https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct
