- Although some studies have shown that GPT-4’s opinions significantly overlap with human reviewers [23], human evaluation remains the gold standard in assessing natural language generation quality [9]. The absence of human evaluation in our current metrics may introduce bias into the final results. In future work, we plan to incorporate human judgments to enhance the robustness and validity of the evaluation.
- Although Section 5.4 provides both correct examples and error cases of HDM in humour translation, its applicability to different types of humour has not yet been systematically evaluated. Given the diversity of humour across regions and cultural contexts, further in-depth analysis is required to assess the method’s generalizability in broader translational scenarios.

Nevertheless, HDM provides meaningful insights into tackling the complex problems of humour loss and linguistic interference in humour translation, facilitating the effective transfer of humour across different languages.

## 7 Conclusion

In this paper, we introduce a novel approach named Humour Decomposition Mechanism (HDM) for humour translation. Specifically, HDM consists of *humour decomposition*, *translation module* and *humour composition*, which creates a three-step paradigm of mining intrinsic knowledge of jokes, translating the intrinsic knowledge and then composing the jokes based on the translation. Moreover, we integrate humour theory into HDM to boost performance further. Experimental results in automatic evaluation reveal our method can attain promising performance in humour translation. In the future, we will explore the methods for incorporating human review in HDM to further improve the quality of humour translation.

## References

1. Achiam, J., Adler, S., Agarwal, S., Ahmad, L., Akkaya, I., Aleman, F.L., Almeida, D., Altenschmidt, J., Altman, S., Anadkat, S., et al.: Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774 (2023)

2. AI, ., ; Young, A., Chen, B., Li, C., Huang, C., Zhang, G., Zhang, G., Li, H., Zhu, J., Chen, J., Chang, J., Yu, K., Liu, P., Liu, Q., Yue, S., Yang, S., Yang, S., Yu, T., Xie, W., Huang, W., Hu, X., Ren, X., Niu, X., Nie, P., Xu, Y., Liu, Y., Wang, Y., Cai, Y., Gu, Z., Liu, Z., Dai, Z.: Yi: Open foundation models by 01.ai (2024)

3. Alnajjar, K., Hämäläinen, M., Tiedemann, J., Laaksonen, J., Kurimo, M.: When to laugh and how hard? a multimodal approach to detecting humor and its intensity. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.01889 (2022)

4. Amir, S., Wallace, B.C., Lyu, H., Silva, P.C.M.J.: Modelling context with user embeddings for sarcasm detection in social media. arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.00976 (2016)

5. Chen, A., Lou, L., Chen, K., Bai, X., Xiang, Y., Yang, M., Zhao, T., Zhang, M.: DUAL-REFLECT: Enhancing large language models for reflective translation through dual learning feedback mechanisms. In: Ku, L.W., Martins,
