## 3.1 Humour Decomposition Mechanism

We design three-step paradigm using Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting, which mimics the human thought process in solving complex reasoning tasks [37, 36], to enhance humour translation outcomes.

**Humour Decomposition** Humour decomposition is one of the important cores for HDM. Specifically, our approach initiates the LLM with a specific task of joke analysis. The request is formulated as follows:

> You are a humour assistant. Please analyze the following joke: [Given joke $\mathcal{L}_i$]

Given a joke $\mathcal{L}_i$, we first claim the role of LLM in humour. Furthermore, we introduce an analysis process to generate the sequence of corresponding knowledge $a$, which is organized into the final analysis $\mathcal{A}$. The formulation of our *Humour Decomposition* method can be expressed as follows:

$$
\mathcal{A}_i = \arg \max p(a \mid \mathcal{L}_i)
\tag{1}
$$

where $\mathcal{L}_i$ and $\mathcal{A}_i$ denote the $i_{th}$ joke and its final analysis.

**Translation Module** After achieving *Humour Decomposition*, we use the *Translation Module* to convert the source language analysis into the target language analysis. To illustrate, given the analysis $\mathcal{A}_i$ and the type of source language $S$, we prompt the LLMs to translate $\mathcal{A}_i$ into target language $T$, with the prompt defined as:

> Please translate the analysis from [source language $S$] into [target language $T$]: [text $\mathcal{A}_i$]

Formally, the translation is determined as:

$$
\mathcal{A}'_i = \arg \max p(a' \mid \mathcal{A}_i, S, T,)
\tag{2}
$$

where $\mathcal{A}'_i$ represents the final translation of the analysis, generated from all potential translation results $a'$.

**Humour Composition** Once the translation is generated, we further propose *Humour Composition* to facilitate the generation of jokes. Given the translation version of the analysis, we design the prompt to make LLMs generate the joke of the target language. This is the structure of the prompt:
