> Please generate a [target language $\mathcal{T}$] joke based on the analysis: [text $\mathcal{A}_i$]

Formally, the humour composition can be defined as:

$$
\mathcal{F} = \arg\max p(f \mid \mathcal{A}'_i, \mathcal{T})
\tag{3}
$$

where $\mathcal{F}$ is the final generation of the target language joke, generated from all potential generation results $f$.

## 3.2 Integrating Humour Theory

In this section, we incorporate humour theory inspired by [32] to enhance humour factors. The basic structure of the humorous text consists of the topic $\mathcal{X}$, angle $\mathcal{Y}$ and punchline $\mathcal{Z}$. The topic $\mathcal{X}$ is the news item that the joke is based on and the angle $\mathcal{Y}$ is the particular direction that the joke takes, while the punchline $\mathcal{Z}$ which is the surprise at the end of the joke. Therefore, the *Humour Decomposition* module in HDM can be further improved as follows:

> You are a humour assistant. A joke can be thought of as being composed based on three components. Under a particular theory of joke information, those components are:  
> 1. The topic, which is the news item that the joke is based on.  
> 2. The angle, which is the particular direction that the joke takes.  
> 3. The punchline, which is the surprise at the end of the joke.

Similarly, with *Humour Decomposition*, we first claim the LLM’s role in humour. Then, we describe the components under the particular theory and give these components some details. Finally, we provide an instruction to format the model’s outputs, which are defined as:

> Please analyze the following joke and provide the best explanation of what the topic is, what the angle is, and what the punchline is: [Given joke $\mathcal{L}_i$]

Formally, The improved formulation of the Humour Decomposition can be expressed as follows:

$$
\mathcal{A}_i = \arg\max p(\mathcal{X}_i, \mathcal{Y}_i, \mathcal{Z}_i \mid \mathcal{L}_i)
\tag{4}
$$

where $\mathcal{A}_i$ denotes the analysis of the $i_{th}$ joke, including the con-cat of topic $\mathcal{X}_i$, angle $\mathcal{Y}_i$ and punchline $\mathcal{Z}_i$.

HDM leverages the advanced generative capabilities of LLMs [13] to reconstruct humour translation, overcoming the limitations of traditional translation methods, which are often constrained by linear word or phrase arrangements
