[Figure: An illustration comparing humour translation approaches. Visible text includes: “Traditional Translation: 田野里，一头绿色的牛叫什么？透明牛。”; “Please translate the following jokes in Chinese: What do you call a green cow in a field? Invisibull.”; “Back Translation: What color cows are not seen in a field? Green.”; “HDM: 什么颜色的牛在牧场上看不见？绿色的。”]

Fig. 1: An example of humour translation from English to Chinese.

accurately convey its intended humorous effect in the target language [41] and contribute to advancements in general translation research.

There are two fundamental approaches to general translation [25]: formal equivalence, which prioritizes literal translation, and dynamic equivalence, which focuses on emotional or contextual translation. However, the majority of existing studies focus on literal translation, with limited research exploring emotional translation, particularly in the context of humour. Chen et al. [6] use cross-language transfer to enable zero-shot neural machine translation and Wang et al. [35] explore a more efficient KNN-MT for translation. With the advent of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT[^4] and GPT-4 [1], translation has become a prominent domain where LLMs demonstrate remarkable capacity and competence [42, 15]. However, these models still lack proficiency in humour translation in some cases. In Fig 1, for example, the punchline “Invisibull” is awkwardly rendered in the Chinese translation, resulting in a stiff and unnatural expression. By altering the linguistic structure and logical order, while preserving the intended meaning, the translation becomes more fluent and natural, as shown on the right side.

Due to linguistic and cultural barriers, humour translation often results in the loss of humour in the translated content [38]. The reason is that jokes often rely on extensive knowledge and common sense, and the punchline is usually hidden in the semantics of the sentence, such as cultural context, wordplay, and metaphorical expressions. These elements are challenging to identify and translate accurately [14], which weakens the humour of the joke in the target language. Additionally, the issue of linguistic interference is a factor in humour translation [17], which is a non-standard version of the target language in the product of translation. Ma and Cheung [24] indicate that linguistic interference is linked to reduced lexical variety and less cohesive discourse, while the traditional method of translation usually involves merely a linear arrangement of words or phrases [10], which can result in a lack of fluency and coherence in the translated

[^4]: https://chat.openai.com/chat
