# Psychology-Driven Enhancement of Humour Translation

Yuchen Su<sup>1[0009–0007–5287–4163]</sup>, Yonghua Zhu<sup>2[0000–0003–3339–8855]</sup>, Yang Chen<sup>1[0000–0002–1148–3920]</sup>, Diana Benavides Prado<sup>3[0000–0003–1137–2822]</sup>, and Michael Witbrock<sup>1[0000–0002–7554–0971]</sup>

<sup>1</sup> School of Computer Science, University of Auckland, New Zealand  
<sup>2</sup> Singapore University of Technology and Design  
<sup>3</sup> School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Queen Mary University of London  
{ysu132}@aucklanduni.ac.nz

**Abstract.** Humour translation plays a vital role as a bridge between different cultures, fostering understanding and communication. Although most existing Large Language Models (LLMs) are capable of general translation tasks, these models still struggle with humour translation, which is especially reflected through linguistic interference and lacking humour in translated text. In this paper, we propose a psychology-inspired Humour Decomposition Mechanism (HDM) that utilises Chain-of-Thought (CoT) to imitate the ability of the human thought process, stimulating LLMs to optimise the readability of translated humorous texts. Moreover, we integrate humour theory in HDM to further enhance the humorous elements in the translated text. Our automatic evaluation experiments on open-source humour datasets demonstrate that our method significantly improves the quality of humour translation, yielding average gains of 7.75% in humour, 2.81% in fluency, and 6.13% in coherence of the generated text.

**Keywords:** Large Language Model · Humour Translation · Chain-of-Thought · Psycholinguistics.

## 1 Introduction

Humour plays an important role in human interaction. Humour studies can actually gain greater insight into the linguistic, social and psychological factors of humour [41]. A comprehensive understanding of humour necessitates a deep grasp of both semantic information and cultural background [8]. Effective humour translation serves as a bridge across cultural divides, facilitating communication and fostering cross-cultural understanding [33]. Some studies [26] mention that the humour translation research can enhance the understanding of language transfer and the process of meaning reconstruction, while enriching the translation theories, especially for dynamic equivalence and functionalist translation strategies. Moreover, an effective humour translation strategy can
