and linguistic interference, to improve the fluency and coherence of jokes. Additionally, the integration of humour theory defines the general structure of joke composition within the prompts, enabling the large language model to better comprehend background and punchline information. It theoretically enhances the LLM’s ability to generate more humorous jokes, and we will also be demonstrated in our experiments.

## 4 Experiments

### 4.1 Experimental Setup

We select four representative state-of-the-art LLMs from the Chatbot Arena Leaderboard [45] as backbone references for our study: Gemini1.5-Pro [31], Yi-Large [2], GPT3.5-Turbo and GPT4-Turbo. We set the default hyperparameters of these models in their playgrounds. Additionally, we use DUAL-REFLECT [5] and MAPS [15], which are the state-of-the-art translation approaches, as our baselines. Given budget constraints, we randomly select 500 samples on the Short Jokes Dataset [^5] for experiments. Finally, we evaluate their performance by using automatic metrics.

### 4.2 Metrics

Since our approach specializes in humorous translation tasks, traditional automatic evaluation methods, such as COMET [28] and BLEURT [30], have difficulty evaluating elements like humour. Therefore, inspired by [22], we evaluate the final results by using GEMBA which is a GPT4-based metric for generation quality. We choose the open area no-reference metrics GEMBA-SQM and GEMBA-STARS for their superior performance in [22]. Specifically, GEMBA-SQM evaluates scalar quality metrics by dividing the assessment results into several stages, where 0 and 100 represent the lowest and highest scores, respectively. GEMBA-STARS is a classification task based on a one-to-five star ranking, which is a style often used when users are asked to review various services or products [22]. In this section, SQM-H, SQM-F and SQM-C represent GEMBA-SQM metrics and STAR-H, STAR-F and STAR-C represent GEMBA-STARS metrics in humour, fluency and coherence.

To adapt to the evaluation of humour translation in linguistic interference and humour factor, we modify the original translation prompts and use the keywords of humour, coherence and fluency based on [8]. We report the performance by averaging the results over three runs in each type of experiment. Additionally, some answers are observed occasionally fall outside these ranges because of the LLM’s hallucination [22]. For example, instead of providing predicted scores, the model occasionally outputs explanations as results. Therefore, we omit the invalid responses and retain only the valid results in this research.

[^5]: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/thedevastator/short-jokes-dataset
