incongruity in a logical manner—is also key (Ritchie, 1999, 2009; Suls, 1972, 1983). We can construe our measures as corresponding roughly to incongruity and resolution in this sense, where ambiguity represents the presence of incongruous sentence meanings, and distinctiveness represents the degree to which each meaning is strongly supported by different parts of the stimulus. Our results would then suggest that incongruity distinguishes humorous input from regular sentences, while the intensity of humor may depend on the degree to which incongruity is resolved by focusing on two different supporting sets of contexts. Future work could more specifically examine the relationship between incongruity resolution and the measures presented in our framework.

Although our task in this paper was limited in scope, it is a step toward developing computational models that explain higher order linguistic phenomena such as humor. To address more complex jokes, future work may incorporate more sophisticated models of language understanding, for example to consider the time course of sentence processing (Kamide, Altmann, & Haywood, 2003; McRae, Spivey-Knowlton, & Tanenhaus, 1998), effects of pragmatic reasoning and background knowledge (Kao, Bergen, & Goodman, 2014; Kao, Wu, Bergen, & Goodman, 2014), and multisentence discourse (Chambers & Jurafsky, 2008; Polanyi, 1988). Our approach could also benefit greatly from the rich commonsense knowledge encoded in the Ontological Semantics system (Nirenburg & Raskin, 2004) and may be combined with it to measure ambiguity and distinctiveness at the script level rather than only at the level of the sentence.

Previous research on creative language use such as metaphor, idioms, and irony has contributed a great deal to our understanding of the cognitive mechanisms that enable people to infer rich meanings from sparse and often ambiguous linguistic input (Gibbs & O’Brien, 1991; Lakoff & Turner, 2009; Nunberg, Sag, & Wasow, 1994; Ricoeur, 2003). We hope that our work on humor contributes to theories of language understanding to account for a wider range of linguistic behaviors and the social and affective functions they serve. By deriving the precise properties of sentences that make us laugh, our work brings us one step closer toward understanding that funny thing called humor (pun intended).

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship to JTK, research grant NSF 0953870 and fellowships from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences to RL, and a James S. McDonnell Foundation Scholar Award to NDG.

## Notes

1. An early version of this work appeared in the proceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. In this current extended paper, we examine a wider
