(1a) The magician got so mad he performed the trick of pulling a rabbit out of his hat.  
(1b) The magician got so mad he pulled out the hair on his head.

At the most basic level, the humor in this pun relies on the fact that it contains the word “hare,” which is phonetically confusable with “hair.” However, the following sentence also contains a phonetically ambiguous word, but it is clearly not a pun:  
(2) “The hare ran rapidly across the field.”

A critical difference between (1) and (2) is that *hare* and *hair* are both probable meanings in the context of sentence (1), whereas *hare* is much more likely than *hair* in sentence (2). From this informal analysis, it seems that what distinguishes a phonetic pun from a regular sentence is that both meanings are compatible with context in a phonetic pun, suggesting that a sentence must contain ambiguity to be funny. However, another example shows that ambiguity alone is insufficient. Consider the sentence:

(3) “Look at that hare.”

This sentence is also ambiguous between *hare* and *hair*, but it is unlikely to elicit chuckles. A critical difference between (1) and (3) is that while each meaning is strongly supported by distinct groups of words in (1) (*hare* is supported by “magician” and “hare”; *hair* is supported by “mad” and “pulled”), both meanings are weakly supported by all words in (3). This comparison suggests that in addition to ambiguity, distinctiveness of support may also be an important criterion for humor. Observations on the putative roles of ambiguity of sentence meaning and distinctiveness of support will motivate our formal measures of humor.<sup>3</sup>

How should we represent the meaning of a sentence in order to measure its ambiguity and distinctiveness? While formally representing sentence meanings is a complex and largely unsolved problem (Grefenstette, Sadrzadeh, Clark, Coecke, & Pulman, 2014; Liang, Jordan, & Klein, 2013; Socher, Huval, Manning, & Ng, 2012), we can utilize certain properties of phonetically ambiguous sentences to simplify the issue at hand. We notice that in sentence (1), meaning (1a) arises if the word “hare” is interpreted as *hare*, while meaning (1b) arises if “hare” is interpreted as its homophone *hair*. Each sentence-level meaning directly corresponds to the meaning of a phonetically ambiguous word. As a result, we can represent sentence meaning (1a) with the meaning of *hare* and (1b) with the meaning of *hair*. This approximation is coarse and captures only the “gist” of a sentence rather than its full meaning. However, we will show that such a gist representation is sufficiently powerful for modeling the interpretation of sentences with only a phonetic ambiguity.

Given the space of candidate sentence meanings, a comprehender’s task is to infer a distribution over these meanings from the words she observes. Formally, a phonetically ambiguous sentence such as (1) is composed of a vector of words $\vec{w} = \{w_1, \ldots, w_i, h, w_{i+1}, \ldots, w_n\}$, where $h$ is phonetically confusable with its homophone $h'$. The sentence meaning is a latent variable $m$, which we assume has two possible values $m_a$ and $m_b$. These two sentence meanings can be identified with the homophones $h$ and $h'$, respectively. Consistent with a noisy channel approach (Gibson, Bergen, & Piantadosi, 2013; Levy, 2008; Levy, Bicknell, Slattery, & Rayner, 2009), we construe the task of understanding a sentence as inferring $m$
