[Figure: Ellipse plot with x-axis “Ambiguity” and y-axis “Distinctiveness”; legends “Sentence Type” (Pun, Non-pun) and “Homophone Type” (Identical, Near).]

Fig. 2. Standard error ellipses of ambiguity and distinctiveness for each sentence type. Puns (both identical and near homophone) score higher on ambiguity and distinctiveness; non-pun sentences score lower.

between ambiguity and distinctiveness (both as fixed effect and by-subjects random slope) showed no significant interaction between the two ($t = 1.39$, $p > .05$).

We then examined whether the measures are able to go beyond distinguishing puns from non-puns to predicting fine-grained levels of funniness within puns. We found that ambiguity does not correlate with human ratings of funniness within the 145 pun sentences ($r = .03$, $p = .697$). However, distinctiveness ratings correlate significantly with human ratings of funniness within pun sentences ($r = .28$, $p < .001$). By separating the puns into four equal bins based on their distinctiveness scores, we found that puns with distinctiveness measures in the top-most quartile were significantly funnier than puns with distinctiveness measures in the lower quartiles ($t(90.15) = 3.41$, $p < .001$) (Fig. 3). This suggests that while ambiguity helps distinguish puns from non-puns, high distinctiveness characterizes exceptionally humorous puns. To our knowledge, our model provides the first quantitative measure that predicts fine-grained levels of funniness within humorous stimuli.

Besides predicting the funniness of a sentence, the model can also be used to reveal critical features of each pun that make it amusing. For each sentence, we identified the set of words that is most likely to be semantically relevant given $\vec{w}$ and each sentence meaning $m$. Formally, we computed $\arg \max_{\vec{f}} P(\vec{f}\mid m_a,\vec{w})$ and $\arg \max_{\vec{f}} P(\vec{f}\mid m_b,\vec{w})$.

Table 2  
Regression coefficients using ambiguity and distinctiveness to predict funniness ratings for all 435 sentences;  
$p$-values are computed assuming that the $t$ statistic is approximately normally distributed

|  | Estimate | $SE$ | $p$-value |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Intercept | −2.139 | 0.306 | <.0001 |
| Ambiguity | 1.915 | 0.221 | <.0001 |
| Distinctiveness | 0.264 | 0.040 | <.0001 |
