Table 1  
Example sentence from each category. Identical homophone sentences contain phonetically ambiguous words that have identical homophones; near homophone sentences contain phonetically ambiguous words that have near homophones. Pun sentences were selected from a pun website; non-pun sentences were selected from an online dictionary (see main text for details)

| Homophone | Type | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Identical | Pun | The magician was so mad he pulled his hare out. |
| Identical | Non-pun | The hare ran rapidly across the field. |
| Identical | Non-pun | Some people have lots of hair on their heads. |
| Near | Pun | A dentist has to tell a patient the whole tooth. |
| Near | Non-pun | A dentist examines one tooth at a time. |
| Near | Non-pun | She always speaks the truth. |

near homophone sentences. Each participant read 40 sentences in random order, counter-balanced for the sentence types, and rated each sentence on funniness on a scale from 1 to 7. We removed four participants who reported a native language other than English and z-scored the ratings within each participant. We used the average z-scored ratings across participants as human judgments of funniness for all 435 sentences.

As described in the measure derivations, computing ambiguity and distinctiveness requires the conditional probabilities of each word given a sentence meaning, that is, $P(w_i|m)$. In practice, this value is difficult to obtain reliably and accurately in an automated way, such as through WordNet distances or semantic vector space models (Gabrilovich & Markovitch, 2007; Mihalcea et al., 2010; Zhang, Gentile, & Ciravegna, 2011).$^7$ Instead of tackling the challenging problem of automatically learning $P(w_i, m)$ from large corpora, we observe that $P(w_i, m)$ is related to point wise mutual information (PMI) between $w_i$ and $m$, an information-theoretic measure defined mathematically as the following (Church & Hanks, 1990):

$$
\log \frac{P(w_i, m)}{P(w_i)P(m)} = \log P(w_i|m) - \log P(w_i)
\tag{7}
$$

Intuitively, PMI captures the relatedness between $w_i$ and $m$, which can be measured empirically by asking people to judge the semantic relatedness between two words. This allows us to harness people’s rich knowledge of the relationships between word meanings without relying solely on co-occurrence statistics in corpora. We assume that the z-scored human ratings of relatedness between two words, denoted $R(w_i, m)$, approximates true PMI. With the proper substitutions and transformations$^8$ from Eq. 7, we derive the following:

$$
P(w_i|m) = e^{R(w_i, m)}P(w_i)
\tag{8}
$$

To obtain $R(w_i, m)$ for each of the words in the stimuli sentences, function words were removed from each of the sentences in our data set, and the remaining words were paired with the phonetically ambiguous word $h$ and its homophone $h'$ (e.g., for the pun in
