ous research has shown that humor is ubiquitous across cultures (Kruger, 1996; Martin, 2010), increases interpersonal attraction (Lundy, Tan, & Cunningham, 1998), helps resolve intergroup conflicts (Smith, Harrington, & Neck, 2000), and improves psychological well-being (Martin, Kuiper, Olinger, & Dance, 1993). However, little is known about the cognitive basis of such a pervasive and enjoyable experience. By providing a formal model of linguistic humor, we aim to solve part of the mystery of what makes us laugh.

Theories of humor have existed since the time of Plato and Aristotle (see Attardo, 1994, for review). A leading theory in modern research posits that incongruity, loosely characterized as the presence of multiple incompatible meanings in the same input, may be critical for humor (Forabosco, 1992; Hurley, Dennett, & Adams, 2011; Koestler, 1964; Martin, 2010; McGhee, 1979; Vaid & Ramachandran, 2001; Veale, 2004). However, despite relative consensus on the importance of incongruity, definitions of incongruity vary across informal analyses of jokes. As Ritchie (2009) wrote, “There is still not a rigorously precise definition that would allow an experimenter to objectively determine whether or not incongruity was present in a given situation or stimulus” (p. 331). This lack of precision makes it difficult to empirically test the role of incongruity in humor or extend these ideas to a concrete computational understanding. On the other hand, most work on computational humor focuses either on joke-specific templates and schemata (Binsted, 1996; Taylor & Mazlack, 2004) or surface features and properties of individual words (Kiddon & Brun, 2011; Mihalcea & Strapparava, 2006; Reyes, Rosso & Buscaldi, 2012). One exception is Mihalcea, Strapparava, and Pulman (2010), which used features inspired by incongruity theory to detect humorous punch lines; however, the incongruity features proposed did not significantly outperform a random baseline, leading the authors to conclude that joke-specific features may be preferable. While these dominant approaches in computational humor are able to identify humorous stimuli within certain constraints, they fall short of testing a more general cognitive theory of humor.

In this work, we suggest that true measures of incongruity in linguistic humor may require a model that infers meaning from words in a principled manner. We build upon theories of humor and language processing to formally measure the multiplicity of meaning in puns—sentences “in which two different sets of ideas are expressed, and we are confronted with only one series of words,” as described by philosopher Henri Bergson (Bergson, 1914). Puns provide an ideal test bed for our purposes because they are simple, humorous sentences with multiple meanings. Here we focus on phonetic puns, defined as puns containing words that sound identical or similar to other words in English.<sup>1</sup> The following is an example:

(1) “The magician got so mad he pulled his hare out.”

Although the sentence’s written form unambiguously contains the word “hare,” previous work has suggested that phonetic representations play a central role in language comprehension even during reading (Niznikiewicz & Squires, 1996; Pexman, Lupker, & Jared, 2001; Pollatsek, Lesch, Morris, & Rayner, 1992). Taking the lexical ambiguity of its phonetic form into account, this sentence thus implicitly expresses two “ideas,” or meanings:<sup>2</sup>
