$$
P(\vec{f}|m,\vec{w}) \propto P(\vec{w}|m,\vec{f})P(\vec{f}|m)
\tag{5}
$$

Since $\vec{f}$ and $m$ are independent, $P(\vec{f}|m)=P(\vec{f})$, which is a constant. Let $F_a = P(\vec{f}|m_a,\vec{w})$ and $F_b = P(\vec{f}|m_b,\vec{w})$. We compute the symmetrized Kullback-Leibler divergence score $D_{KL}(F_a||F_b) + D_{KL}(F_b||F_a)$, which measures the difference between the distribution of supporting words given one sentence meaning and the distribution of supporting words given another sentence meaning. This results in the distinctiveness measure$^4$:

$$
Dist(F_a,F_b)=\sum_i \left(\ln\left(\frac{F_a(i)}{F_b(i)}\right)F_a(i)+\ln\left(\frac{F_b(i)}{F_a(i)}\right)F_b(i)\right)
\tag{6}
$$

Given these derivations, we conducted the following experiment to implement and test the ambiguity and distinctiveness measures.

2.2. *Experiment*

We collected 435 sentences consisting of phonetic puns and regular sentences that contain phonetically ambiguous words. We obtained the puns from a website called “Pun of the Day” (http://www.punoftheday.com), which at the time of collection contained over a thousand puns submitted by users. We collected 40 puns where the phonetically ambiguous word has an identical homophone, for example “hare.” Since only a limited number of puns satisfied this criterion, a research assistant generated an additional 25 pun sentences based on a separate list of homophone words, resulting in a total of 65 identical-homophone puns. We selected 130 corresponding non-pun sentences from an online version of *Heinle’s Newbury House Dictionary of American English* (http://nhd.heinle.com). Of the 130 non-pun sentences, 65 sentences contain the ambiguous words observed in the pun sentences (e.g., “hare”); the other 65 contain the unobserved homophone words (e.g., “hair”).$^5$ To test whether our measures generalize to sentences containing phonetically ambiguous words that do not have identical homophones, we collected 80 puns where the phonetically ambiguous word sounds similar (but not identical) to other words in English (e.g., “tooth” sounds similar to “truth”). We also collected 160 corresponding non-pun sentences. Table 1 shows an example sentence from each category. The full set of sentences can be found here: http://web.stanford.edu/~justinek/pun-paper/results.html

We obtained funniness ratings for each of the 435 sentences. We asked 100 participants on Amazon’s Mechanical Turk$^6$ to rate the 195 sentences that contain identical homophones. Each participant read roughly 60 sentences in random order, counterbalanced for the sentence types, and rated each sentence on funniness (“How funny is this sentence?”) on a scale from 1 (not at all) to 7 (extremely). We removed seven participants who reported a native language other than English and z-scored the ratings within each participant. A separate group of 160 participants on Mechanical Turk rated the 240
