that a noisy channel model of sentence processing facilitates flexible context selection, which enables a single series of words to express multiple meanings. Our work is one of the first to integrate a computational model of sentence processing to analyze humor in a manner that is both intuitive and quantitative. In addition, it is the first computational work to our knowledge to go beyond classifying humorous versus regular sentences to predict fine-grained funniness judgments within humorous stimuli.

The idea of deriving measures of humor from a model of general language understanding is closely related to previous approaches, where humor is analyzed within a framework of semantic theory and language comprehension. Raskin’s (1985) Semantic Script Theory of Humor (SSTH) builds upon a theory of language comprehension in which language is understood in terms of scripts. Under this analysis, a text is funny when it activates two scripts that are incompatible with each other. This theory explains a number of classic jokes where the punch line introduces a script that is incongruous with the script activated by the joke’s setup. Attardo and Raskin (1991) proposed a revision to SSTH in the General Theory of Verbal Humor (GTVH), which details six hierarchically organized knowledge resources that inform the understanding of texts as well as the detection of humor. Nirenburg and Raskin (2004) further formalized the ideas proposed in SSTH and GTVH by developing a system for computational semantics termed Ontological Semantics, which includes a large concept ontology, a repository of facts, and an analyzer that translates texts into an ontology-based knowledge representation. This system provides rich ontological knowledge to support in-depth language comprehension and has been applied productively to a variety of domains (Beale, Lavoie, McShane, Nirenburg, & Korelsky, 2004; Nirenburg & Raskin, 2004; Taylor, Raskin, & Hempelmann, 2011). Hempelmann, Raskin, and Triezenberg (2006) used a classic joke to show that an extension to the Ontological Semantics system can in principle detect as well as generate humorous texts. However, to our knowledge the system has not yet been tested on a larger body of texts to demonstrate its performance in a quantitative manner (Raskin, 2008; Taylor, 2010). While providing detailed analyses that reveal many important characteristics of humor, much of the work on formalizing humor theories falls short of predicting people’s fine-grained judgments of funniness for a large number of texts (Attardo, Hempelmann, & Di Maio, 2002; Attardo, 2001; Brône, Feyaerts, & Veale, 2006; Hempelmann, 2004; Raskin & Attardo, 1994; Ritchie, 2001; Veale, 2006). In this regard, we believe that our work advances the current state of formal approaches to humor theory. By implementing a simple but psychologically motivated computational model of sentence processing, we derived measures that distinguish puns from regular sentences and correlate significantly with fine-grained humor ratings within puns. Our approach also provides an intuitive but automatic way to identify features that make a pun funny. This suggests that a probabilistic model of general sentence processing (even without the support of rich ontological semantics) may enable powerful explanatory measures of humor.

In addition to advancing computational approaches, our work contributes to cognitive theories of humor by providing evidence that different factors may account for separate aspects of humor appreciation. Some humor theorists argue that while incongruity is necessary for humor, resolving incongruity—discovering a cognitive rule that explains the
