Table 1, [“magician,” “hare”] is a legitimate word pair, as well as [“magician,” “hair”]). This resulted in 1,460 distinct word pairs for identical homophone sentences and 2,056 word pairs for near homophone sentences. We asked 200 participants on Amazon’s Mechanical Turk to rate the semantic relatedness of word pairs for identical homophone sentences. Each participant saw 146 pairs of words in random order and were asked to rate how related each word pair is using a scale from 1 to 10. We removed five participants who reported a native language other than English. A separate group of 120 participants rated word pairs for near homophone sentences. We removed two participants who reported a native language other than English. Since it is difficult to measure the relatedness of a word with itself, we assume that the value is constant for all words and treat it as a free parameter, $r$. After computing our measures, we fit this parameter to people’s funniness judgments (resulting in $r = 13$). We used the average z-scored relatedness measure for each word pair to obtain $R(w_i, m)$ and Google Web unigrams to obtain $P(w_i)$. This allowed us to compute $P(w_i|m)$ for all word and meaning pairs.

## 3. Results

We computed an ambiguity and distinctiveness score for each of the 435 sentences (see Methods). We found no significant differences between identical and near homophone puns in terms of funniness ratings ($t(130.91) = 0.13$, $p = .896$), ambiguity scores ($t(137.80) = 1.13$, $p = .261$), and distinctiveness scores ($t(134.91) = -0.61$, $p = .543$), suggesting that ambiguity and distinctiveness are fairly robust to the differences between puns that involve identical or near homophone words. As a result, we collapsed across identical and near homophone sentences for the remaining analyses. We found that ambiguity was significantly higher for pun sentences than non-pun sentences ($t(159.48) = 7.89$, $p < .0001$), which suggests that the ambiguity measure successfully captures characteristics distinguishing puns from other phonetically ambiguous sentences. Distinctiveness was also significantly higher for pun sentences than non-pun sentences ($t(248.99) = 6.11$, $p < .0001$). Fig. 2 shows the standard error ellipses for the two sentence types in a two-dimensional space of ambiguity and distinctiveness. Although there is a fair amount of noise in the predictors (likely due to simplifying assumptions, the need to use empirical measures of relatedness, and the inherent complexity of humor), pun sentences (both identical and near homophone) tend to cluster at a space with higher ambiguity and distinctiveness, while non-pun sentences score lower on both measures.

We constructed a linear mixed-effects model of funniness judgments with ambiguity and distinctiveness as fixed effects, a by-item random intercept, and by-subject random slopes for entropy and distinctiveness. We found that ambiguity and distinctiveness were both highly significant predictors, with funniness increasing as each of ambiguity and distinctiveness increases (Table 2). Furthermore, the two measures capture a substantial amount of the reliable variance in funniness ratings averaged across subjects ($F(2, 432) = 74.07$, $R^2 = 0.25$, $p < .0001$). A linear mixed-effects model including a term for the interaction
