Suls, J. (1983). Cognitive processes in humor appreciation. In *Handbook of Humor Research*, (pp. 39–57). New York: Springer.

Taylor, J. M. (2010). Ontology-based view of natural language meaning: The case of humor detection. *Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing*, 1(3), 221–234.

Taylor, J., & Mazlack, L. (2004). Computationally recognizing wordplay in jokes. In *Proceedings of Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society*, (pp. 1315–1320). Wheat Ridge, CO: Cognitive Science Society.

Taylor, J. M., Raskin, V., & Hempelmann, C. F. (2011). From disambiguation failures to common-sense knowledge acquisition: A day in the life of an Ontological Semantic System. In R. Gilof (Ed.), *Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conferences on Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent Technology* (Vol. 1, pp. 186–190). New York: IEEE Computer Society.

Vaid, J., & Ramachandran, V. S. (2001). Laughter and humor. *Oxford companion to the body* (pp. 426–427). Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Veale, T. (2004). Incongruity in humor: Root cause or epiphenomenon? *Humor: International Journal of Humor Research*, 17(4), 419–428.

Veale, T. (2006). Computability as a test on linguistics theories. *Applications of Cognitive Linguistics*, 1, 461.

Zhang, Z., Gentile, A. L., & Ciravegna, F. (2011). Harnessing different knowledge sources to measure semantic relatedness under a uniform model. In *Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing* (pp. 991–1002). East Stroudsburg, PA: Association for Computational Linguistics.
