range of sentences, including puns that contain identical homophones as well as puns with words that sound similar (but not identical) to other words in English.

2. In this work, we focus on written sentences that contain phonetic ambiguity. In the future, it would be interesting to examine humorous effects in spoken sentences, where ambiguity cannot be partially resolved by the orthographic form.

3. Note that it is not necessary for both meanings to be completely compatible with the full context, as illustrated by puns such as *I used to be addicted to soap, but I’m clean now*, in which the most common meaning of *clean* is actually ruled out, rather than supported, by full compositional interpretation of the context. What instead seems necessary is that the support derived from the subset of context for each meaning is balanced.

4. In addition to the symmetrized KL divergence of Eq. 6, we also experimented with non-symmetrized KL divergence in both directions and found qualitatively identical results.

5. Results for the 195 identical homophone sentences were reported in Kao et al. (2012), which was published in the proceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society (a non-archival publication).

6. The sample sizes were chosen such that each sentence would receive roughly 20–30 funniness ratings, in order for the uncertainty in funniness measurement to be reasonably low, while keeping the number of sentences rated by each participant manageably small.

7. We experimented with computing these values from corpora in early stages of this work. However, we found that it is difficult to obtain reliable co-occurrence statistics for many word pairs of interest (such as “hare” and “magician”), due to the sparsity of these topics in most corpora. Future work could further explore methods for extracting these types of commonsense-based semantic relationships from corpus statistics.

8. By assuming $R(w_i, m) = \log \frac{P(w_i, m)}{P(w_i)P(m)}$, we get $R(w_i, m) = \log P(w_i, m) - \log P(w_i)$ from Eq. 7; exponentiating both sides gives us Eq. 8.

## References

Attardo, S. (1994). *Linguistic theories of humor*. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.

Attardo, S. (2001). *Humorous texts: A semantic and pragmatic analysis* (Vol. 6). Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.

Attardo, S., Hempelmann, C. F., & Di Maio, S. (2002). Script oppositions and logical mechanisms: Modeling incongruities and their resolutions. *Humor: International Journal of Humor Research*, 15, 3–46.

Attardo, S., & Raskin, V. (1991). Script theory revis (it) ed: Joke similarity and joke representation model. *Humor: International Journal of Humor Research*, 4(3), 293–347.

Beale, S., Lavoie, B., McShane, M., Nirenburg, S., & Korelsky, T. (2004). Question answering using ontological semantics. *Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Text Meaning and Interpretation* (pp. 41–48). East Stroudsberg, PA: Association for Computational Linguistics.

Bergson, H. (1914). *Laughter: An essay on the meaning of the comic*. London: Macmillan.

Binsted, K. (1996). *Machine humour: An implemented model of puns*. PhD thesis, University of Edinburgh.
