[Figure: graphical model with top node $m$ pointing to word nodes $w_1$, $w_2$, $\ldots$, $h$, $\ldots$, $w_n$; lower indicator nodes $f_1$, $f_2$, $\ldots$, $f_h$, $\ldots$, $f_n$ point upward to corresponding word nodes.]

Fig. 1. Graphical representation of a generative model of a sentence. If the indicator variable $f_i$ has value 1, $w_t$ is generated based on semantic relatedness to the sentence meaning $m$; otherwise, $w_t$ is sampled from a trigram language model based on the immediately preceding two words.

using probabilistic integration of noisy evidence given by $\vec{w}$. We construct a simple probabilistic generative model that captures the relationship between the meaning of a sentence and the words that compose it (Fig. 1). If a word is semantically relevant ($f_i = 1$), we assume that it is sampled based on semantic relatedness to the sentence meaning; if the word is irrelevant, or “noise,” it only reflects general language statistics and is sampled from an n-gram model. Because the comprehender maintains uncertainty about which words are relevant, it is possible for her to arrive at multiple interpretations of a sentence that are each coherent but incongruous with one another, a situation that we hypothesize gives rise to humor. To capture this intuition, we introduce two measures of humor derived from the distribution over sentence meanings (details in Methods section).

Given words in a sentence, we infer the joint probability distribution over sentence meanings and semantically relevant words, which can be factorized into the following:

$$
P(m, \vec{f}\mid \vec{w}) = P(m\mid \vec{w})P(\vec{f}\mid m, \vec{w})
\tag{1}
$$

We compute a measure of humor from each of the two terms on the right-hand side. Ambiguity is quantified by the entropy of the distribution $P(m\mid \vec{w})$. If entropy is high, then the sentence is ambiguous because both meanings are near-equally likely. Distinctiveness captures the degree to which the semantically relevant words differ given different sentence meanings. Given one meaning $m_a$, we can compute $F_a = P(\vec{f}\mid m_a, \vec{w})$. Given another meaning $m_b$, we compute $F_b = P(\vec{f}\mid m_b, \vec{w})$. Distinctiveness is quantified by the symmetrized Kullback-Leibler divergence between these two distributions, $D_{KL}(F_a\Vert F_b) + D_{KL}(F_b\Vert F_a)$. If the symmetrized $KL$ distance is high, it suggests that the two sentence meanings are supported by distinct subsets of words in the sentence. Derivation details of these two measures are in the Methods section below. In what follows, we empirically evaluate ambiguity and distinctiveness as predictors of humor in a set of phonetically ambiguous sentences.
