[Figure: Scatter/error-bar plot of Funniness vs. Distinctiveness; x-axis labeled “Distinctiveness” with ticks at 7, 8, 9; y-axis labeled “Funniness” with ticks at 0.8, 1.0, 1.2, 1.4; four diamond points with confidence-interval error bars.]

Fig. 3. Average funniness ratings and distinctiveness of 145 pun sentences binned according to distinctiveness quartiles. Error bars are confidence intervals.

Table 3  
Semantically relevant words, ambiguity/distinctiveness scores, and funniness ratings for sentences from each category. Words in boldface are semantically relevant to $m_a$; words in italics are semantically relevant to $m_b$

| $m_a$ | $m_b$ | Type | Sentence | Amb. | Dist. | Funni. |
|---|---|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| **hare** | *hair* | Pun | The **magician** got so mad he *pulled* his **hare** out. | 0.15 | 7.87 | 1.71 |
|  |  | Non | The **hare ran rapidly** through the **fields**. | 1.43E$^{-5}$ | 7.25 | −0.40 |
| **tooth** | *truth* | Pun | A **dentist** has to *tell* a patient the *whole* **tooth**. | 0.1 | 8.48 | 1.41 |
|  |  | Non | A **dentist examines** one **tooth** at a time. | 8.92E$^{-5}$ | 7.65 | −0.45 |

Table 3 shows a group of identical homophone sentences and a group of near homophone sentences. Sentences in each group contain the same pair of candidate meanings for the homophone; however, they differ on ambiguity, distinctiveness, and funniness. Words that are most likely to be relevant given sentence meaning $m_a$ are in boldface; words that are most likely to be relevant given $m_b$ are in italics. Qualitatively, we observe that the two pun sentences (which are significantly funnier) have more distinct and balanced sets of semantically relevant words for each sentence meaning than other sentences in their groups. Non-pun sentences tend to have no words in support of the meaning that was not observed. Furthermore, the boldfaced and italicized words in each pun sentence are what one might intuitively use to explain why the sentence is funny—for example, the fact that magicians tend to perform magic tricks with hares, and people tend to be described as pulling out their hair when angry.

## 4. Discussion

In this paper, we presented a simple model of gist-level sentence processing and used it to derive formal measures that predict human judgments of humor in puns. We showed
