COGNITIVE SCIENCE  
A Multidisciplinary Journal

Cognitive Science (2015) 1–16  
© 2015 The Authors. *Cognitive Science* published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of Cognitive Science Society  
All rights reserved.  
ISSN: 0364-0213 print/1551-6709 online  
DOI: 10.1111/cogs.12269

# A Computational Model of Linguistic Humor in Puns

Justine T. Kao,<sup>a</sup> Roger Levy,<sup>b</sup> Noah D. Goodman<sup>a</sup>

<sup>a</sup>*Department of Psychology, Stanford University*  
<sup>b</sup>*Department of Linguistics, University of California at San Diego*

Received 4 November 2014; received in revised form 10 February 2015; accepted 1 April 2015

---

## Abstract

Humor plays an essential role in human interactions. Precisely what makes something funny, however, remains elusive. While research on natural language understanding has made significant advancements in recent years, there has been little direct integration of humor research with computational models of language understanding. In this paper, we propose two information-theoretic measures—ambiguity and distinctiveness—derived from a simple model of sentence processing. We test these measures on a set of puns and regular sentences and show that they correlate significantly with human judgments of funniness. Moreover, within a set of puns, the distinctiveness measure distinguishes exceptionally funny puns from mediocre ones. Our work is the first, to our knowledge, to integrate a computational model of general language understanding and humor theory to quantitatively predict humor at a fine-grained level. We present it as an example of a framework for applying models of language processing to understand higher level linguistic and cognitive phenomena.

*Keywords:* Humor; Computational modeling; Language processing; Ambiguity; Noisy channel

---

## 1. Introduction

Love may make the world go round, but humor is the glue that keeps it together. Our everyday experiences serve as evidence that humor plays a critical role in human interactions and composes a significant part of our linguistic, cognitive, and social lives. Previ-

---

Correspondence should be sent to Justine T. Kao, Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Jordan Hall, Building 420, 450 Serra Mall, Stanford, CA 94305. E-mail: justinek@stanford.edu

This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs License, which permits use and distribution in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited, the use is non-commercial and no modifications or adaptations are made.
