arXiv:2501.08474v1 [cs.CL] 14 Jan 2025

# The Theater Stage as Laboratory:  
# Review of Real-Time Comedy LLM Systems for Live Performance

|  |  |  |
|---|---|---|
| **Piotr Mirowski** | **Boyd Branch** | **Kory Mathewson** |
| Improbotics | Improbotics | Improbotics |
| London, UK | Coventry, UK | Montréal, Canada |
| `piotr.mirowski@computer.org` |  |  |

## Abstract

In this position paper, we review the eclectic recent history of academic and artistic works involving computational systems for humor generation, and focus specifically on live performance. We make the case that AI comedy should be evaluated in live conditions, in front of audiences sharing either physical or online spaces, and under real-time constraints. We further suggest that improvised comedy is therefore the perfect substrate for deploying and assessing computational humor systems. Using examples of successful AI-infused shows, we demonstrate that live performance raises three sets of challenges for computational humor generation: 1) questions around robotic embodiment, anthropomorphism and competition between humans and machines, 2) questions around comedic timing and the nature of audience interaction, and 3) questions about the human interpretation of seemingly absurd AI-generated humor. We argue that these questions impact the choice of methodologies for evaluating computational humor, as any such method needs to work around the constraints of live audiences and performance spaces. These interrogations also highlight different types of collaborative relationship of human comedians towards AI tools.

## 1 Introduction

Attempting to combine humor with machine intelligence is a long-standing subject of scientific enquiry and it is perceived as a fundamental challenge (Raskin, 1979). Amin and Burghardt (2020), Veale (2021) and Sharples and y Pérez (2022) provide authoritative reviews of this nascent field, which can be supplemented with examples of recent works that rely on large language models (Winters et al., 2018; Toplyn, 2023; Chen et al., 2023; Jentzsch and Kersting, 2023; Tikhonov and Shtykovskiy, 2024).

According to several computational humor researchers including Winters (2021), “*humans are the only known species that use humor for making others laugh. Furthermore, every known human civilization also has had at least some form of humor for making others laugh*” (Caron, 2002; Gervais and Wilson, 2005). This observation is often extrapolated into the assertion that humor remains an elusive goal for AI (in the same vein, researchers in computational storytelling have defined improvisational storytelling as a *grand challenge* for AI (Martin et al., 2016)). According to recent surveys (Mirowski et al., 2024), this skeptical view about AI’s comedic potential is a strongly-held opinion shared by the wider comedy community, from actors and audiences to reviewers and journalists writing about comedy.

For this reason, we posit that comedy audiences and performance spaces are the ultimate environments to critically evaluate the quality of systems for the computational generation of humor. Even though some studies like (Gorenz and Schwarz, 2024) have evaluated AI-generated humor using crowd-sourced workers, human-computer interaction researchers have raised concerns about the poor quality of crowd-sourced evaluation of open-ended text generation (Karpinska et al., 2021), which can be attributed to lack of buy-in from evaluators, and to missing context. The setup of live professional comedy invites paying audiences expecting to have a good time, and critical reviewers judging the overall performance: it thus provides with a realistic and challenging testbed for computational humor systems. Moreover, the live nature of comedy performance creates rich, interactive exchanges between comedians and audiences, which—unlike pure online evaluation—allows comedians (and comedy generation systems) to incorporate **real-time feedback** and rich sensory and **cultural context** in the **safe environment** of theater.

At the intersection of live theater and humor sits improvisational theater and comedy (Johnstone, 1979), a complex theatrical art form that can be
