no longer requires a physical space, as performers and audience can congregate virtually via teleconference and chat, overcoming long geographical distances, as proved by *Failed to Render*[^24], a comedy club in virtual reality, or most improv teams performing and rehearsing online during Covid-19.

Branch et al. (2023) analysed how shared VR environments and telepresence enhance improvisational flow more than traditional teleconference; a tele-immersive environment was used in 2020-2021 for VR rehearsals and performances[^25] of *Improbotics*, where the AI agent was represented by an avatar (Branch et al., 2021a). Jacob et al. (2019) used computer vision models for physical improv games in *Robot Improv Circus VR*[^26]. *PORTAGING* was a humorous prompt battle with Gen AI performed on a Discord channel at NeurIPS 2022[^27]. In these shows, audience engagement could be measured in chat interactions during streaming and, in some cases, laughter on live audio channels.

## 4 AI language and human interpretation

The remaining question about computational humor systems for live performance is how they help communicate, or how they challenge human actors to make sense of AI-generated output.

On one hand, AI can be used for meaning making: multilingual improv in *Rosetta Code* is mediated by speech recognition, machine translation, and in-ear text-to-speech (Mirowski et al., 2020). Incidentally, these three tools are applications that underlie the development of language models.

On the other hand, we alluded in Section 2 to human actors trying to justify “seemingly absurd” AI-generated text. Improvisers can leverage LLMs as a creative and acting challenge (Mathewson and Mirowski, 2018), and *THEaiTRE*’s scripted production of *AI: When a Robot Writes a Play* exemplifies the glitch aesthetic of involuntarily funny absurdist LLMs (Rosa et al., 2021). Absurdist theatre, however, requires supportive audiences. The *Dramatron* system (Mirowski et al., 2023) was an attempt at making AI-generated theatrical scripts sound less “absurdist”, and it aimed at supporting actors by generating more coherent narratives.

*More than Human*, produced in 2019 by Dr. Gunter Lösel, went in the opposite direction. Its human cast (one of whom was taking lines from an LLM) did not attempt to justify those AI-generated suggestions at all. Instead, and following the principles of Dadaism, they used AI to explore and celebrate their own “inner machine” (Loesel et al., 2020; Lösel, 2024).

## 5 Discussion: evaluation of live AI humor

This position paper claims that audience feedback from live performances enables a challenging testbed for computational humor systems. Arguably, some comedy material is not amenable to live or improvised formats (e.g., memes, comedic videos and films) as they are pre-written and with no live audience interaction. Nevertheless, these can be assessed by measuring audience engagement on social media, in ratings or at the box office.

Human-Computer Interaction literature provides many toolboxes for assessing live audience engagement and the creative process. Branch et al. (2024) and Mathewson and Mirowski (2018) rely on audience and performer surveys after performances. Srivastava and Fitter (2021) measure audience laughter and engagement using microphones. Mirowski et al. (2024) proposed focus groups with comedians engaging in writing tasks with LLMs and assessing AI using Creativity Support Tool metrics like (Cherry and Latulipe, 2014; Chakrabarty et al., 2024): these metrics can be applied to live and improvisational contexts as well.

The fundamental advantage of framing the evaluation of computational humor in the wider context of audience reception and feedback, is that it simultaneously defines the role that AI tools can play in the wider comedy ecosystem–as creativity support tools. Such a framing encourages a collaborative relationship between human comedians and AI tools instead of an adversarial one, and helps approach the various ethical questions around AI art (and comedy in particular) on artists (and comedians) (Epstein et al., 2023; Jiang et al., 2023).

Humans have used the technologies of their time to tell stories, from cave paintings to the internet. Generative AI is one such technology, and this paper gave examples of storytellers trying to adopt it as a writing tool for performance. Humor and comedy writers can evaluate those tools through real-time human feedback, which can be uniquely provided by live theater—an ideal experimental substrate for creative technology for storytelling.

[^24]: https://failedtorender.com/  
[^25]: https://www.art-ai.io/programme/improbotics/  
[^26]: https://gvu.gatech.edu/research/projects/robot-improv-circus-vr-installation  
[^27]: https://neurips.cc/virtual/2022/56220
