## Acknowledgments

The authors wish to thank three anonymous reviewers for instrumental feedback that helped improved the paper, and the casts and guest players of Improbotics for transforming improv and the theatre stage into a laboratory.

## References

Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. 2020. A survey on approaches to computational humor generation. In *Proceedings of The 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, pages 29–41.

Boyd Branch, Christos Efstratiou, Piotr Mirowski, Kory W Mathewson, and Paul Allain. 2021a. Tele-immersive improv: Effects of immersive visualisations on rehearsing and performing theatre online. In *Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems*, pages 1–13.

Boyd Branch, Piotr Mirowski, Kory Mathewson, Sophia Ppali, and Alexandra Covaci. 2024. Designing and evaluating dialogue llms for co-creative improvised theatre. In *Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Computational Creativity*. Association for Computational Creativity.

Boyd Branch, Piotr Mirowski, and Kory W Mathewson. 2021b. Collaborative storytelling with human actors and ai narrators. In *Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Computational Creativity*. Association for Computational Creativity.

Boyd Branch, Piotr Mirowski, Sophia Ppali, Rocio Von Jungenfeld, Paul Allain, and Christos Efstratiou. 2023. Mirror placement matters in remote collaboration. In *Extended Abstracts of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems*, CHI EA ’23, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

James E Caron. 2002. From ethology to aesthetics: Evolution as a theoretical paradigm for research on laughter, humor, and other comic phenomena. *Humor: International Journal of Humor Research*.

Tuhin Chakrabarty, Vishakh Padmakumar, Faeze Brahman, and Smaranda Muresan. 2024. Creativity support in the age of large language models: An empirical study involving professional writers. In *Proceedings of the 16th Conference on Creativity & Cognition*, pages 132–155.

Yuetian Chen, Bowen Shi, and Mei Si. 2023. Prompt to gpt-3: Step-by-step thinking instructions for humor generation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.13195*.

Erin Cherry and Celine Latulipe. 2014. Quantifying the creativity support of digital tools through the creativity support index. *ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI)*, 21(4):1–25.

Derek Collins. 2001. Improvisation in rhapsodic performance. *Helios*, 28(1):11–29.

Ziv Epstein, Aaron Hertzmann, Investigators of Human Creativity, Memo Akten, Hany Farid, Jessica Fjeld, Morgan R Frank, Matthew Groh, Laura Herman, Neil Leach, et al. 2023. Art and the science of generative ai. *Science*, 380(6650):1110–1111.

Giancarlo Frosio. 2023. Generative ai in court. *Court (September 1, 2023). in Nikos Koutras and Niloufer Selvadurai (eds), Recreating Creativity, Reinventing Inventiveness-International Perspectives on AI and IP Governance (Routledge, 2023, Forthcoming)*.

Matthew Gervais and David Sloan Wilson. 2005. The evolution and functions of laughter and humor: A synthetic approach. *The Quarterly review of biology*, 80(4):395–430.

Neave Glennon. 2024. Boti reviews | artificial intelligence improvisation. *Brighton on the inside*.

Drew Gorenz and Norbert Schwarz. 2024. How funny is chatgpt? a comparison of human-and ai-produced jokes. In *PLoS ONE*. OSF.

Manuel Flurin Hendry, Norbert Kottmann, Martin Fröhlich, Florian Bruggisser, Marco Quandt, Stella Speziali, Valentin Huber, and Chris Salter. 2023. Are you talking to me? a case study in emotional human-machine interaction. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment*, volume 19, pages 417–424.

Mikhail Jacob, Prabhav Chawla, Lauren Douglas, Ziming He, Jason Lee, Tanuja Sawant, and Brian Magerko. 2019. Affordance-based generation of pretend object interaction variants for human-computer improvisational theater. In *Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Computational Creativity*. Association for Computational Creativity.

Megan Jamerson. 2023. A comedian and ai walk into a bar. who was funnier? https://www.kcrw.com/news/shows/greater-la/artificial-intel-smpd-homeless-oc/ai-comedy. KCRW.

Sophie Jentzsch and Kristian Kersting. 2023. Chatgpt is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04563*.

Harry H Jiang, Lauren Brown, Jessica Cheng, Mehtab Khan, Abhishek Gupta, Deja Workman, Alex Hanna, Johnathan Flowers, and Timnit Gebru. 2023. Ai art and its impact on artists. In *Proceedings of the 2023 AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society*, pages 363–374.

Philip N Johnson-Laird. 2002. How jazz musicians improvise. *Music Perception*, 19(3).

Keith Johnstone. 1979. *Impro: Improvisation and the Theatre*. Faber and Faber Ltd.
