Marzena Karpinska, Nader Akoury, and Mohit Iyyer. 2021. The perils of using mechanical turk to evaluate open-ended text generation. In *Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 1265–1285.

Heather Knight, Scott Satkin, Varun Ramakrishna, and Santosh Divvala. 2011. A savvy robot standup comic: Online learning through audience tracking. In *Workshop paper (TEI’10).*

Kathleen Marguerite Lea. 1934. Italian popular comedy: a study in the commedia dell’arte, 1560-1620 with special reference to the english stage. *(No Title).*

Gunter Loesel, Piotr Mirowski, and Kory Wallace Mathewson. 2020. Do digital agents do dada? In *Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Computational Creativity*, pages 488–491.

Brian Logan. 2023. Whose generated line is it anyway? ai tries to crack humour’s dna. *The Guardian.*

Gunter Lösel. 2024. Theatre dialogues with machines. *Interdisciplinary Science Reviews*, 49(2):291–304.

Brian Magerko et al. 2009. An empirical study of cognition and theatrical improvisation. In *ACM Creat. & Cog.*

Lara J Martin, Brent Harrison, and Mark O Riedl. 2016. Improvisational computational storytelling in open worlds. In *Interactive Storytelling: 9th International Conference on Interactive Digital Storytelling, ICIDS 2016, Los Angeles, CA, USA, November 15–18, 2016, Proceedings 9*, pages 73–84. Springer.

Kory Mathewson and Piotr Mirowski. 2018. Improbotics: Exploring the imitation game using machine intelligence in improvised theatre. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment*, volume 14, pages 59–66.

Kory W Mathewson. 2019. Humour-in-the-loop: Improvised theatre with interactive machine learning systems. *PhD Thesis, University of Alberta.*

Kory W Mathewson and Piotr Mirowski. 2017a. Improvised theatre alongside artificial intelligences. In *Thirteenth Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment Conference.*

Kory Wallace Mathewson and Piotr Mirowski. 2017b. Improvised comedy as a turing test. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.08819.*

Piotr Mirowski, Juliette Love, Kory Mathewson, and Shakir Mohamed. 2024. A robot walks into a bar: Can language models serve as creativity support tools for comedy? an evaluation of llms’ humour alignment with comedians. In *The 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency*, pages 1622–1636.

Piotr Mirowski, Kory W Mathewson, Boyd Branch, Thomas Winters, Ben Verhoeven, and Jenny Elfving. 2020. Rosetta code: Improv in any language. In *Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Computational Creativity*, pages 115–122.

Piotr Mirowski, Kory W Mathewson, Jaylen Pittman, and Richard Evans. 2023. Co-writing screenplays and theatre scripts with language models: Evaluation by industry professionals. In *Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems*, pages 1–34.

Izabella Pluta. 2016. Theater and robotics: Hiroshi ishiguro’s androids as staged by oriza hirata. *Art Research Journal*, 3(1):65–79.

Victor Raskin. 1979. Semantic mechanisms of humor. In *Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society*, volume 5, pages 325–335.

Rudolf Rosa, Tomáš Musil, Ondřej Dušek, Dominik Jurko, Patricia Schmidtová, David Mareček, Ondřej Bojar, Tom Kocmi, Daniel Hrbek, David Košťák, et al. 2021. When a robot writes a play: Automatically generating a theatre play script. In *Artificial Life Conference Proceedings 33*, volume 2021, page 60. MIT Press One Rogers Street, Cambridge, MA 02142-1209, USA journals-info ....

Mike Sharples and Rafael Pérez y Pérez. 2022. *Story machines: How computers have become creative writers.* Routledge.

Ajitesh Srivastava and Naomi T Fitter. 2021. A robot walks into a bar: Automatic robot joke success assessment. In *2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA)*, pages 2710–2716. IEEE.

Ilya Sutskever, Vinyals Oriol, and Quoc V. Le. 2014. Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, pages 3104–3112.

Gillian Tett. 2023. Can ai crack comedy? https://www.ft.com/content/818f2cab-57ff-42c3-917b-4a83f1d87802. Financial Times.

Jörg Tiedemann. 2009. News from opus-a collection of multilingual parallel corpora with tools and interfaces. In *Recent Advances in Natural Language Processing*, volume 5, pages 237–248.

Alexey Tikhonov and Pavel Shtykovskiy. 2024. Humor mechanics: Advancing humor generation with multistep reasoning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.07280.*

Joe Toplyn. 2023. Witscript 3: A hybrid ai system for improvising jokes in a conversation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.02695.*

Alan Turing. 1950. Computing machinery and intelligence. *Mind*, 59(236):433–460.
