visational game show featuring deep fakes.

Company *Improbotics* adapted that concept in 2024: they comically explore alternative life choices of a consenting audience member, acted out by different improvisers who drive live-generated deep fakes (Glennon, 2024).

## 3 Live performance and real-time interaction as a test for generative AI

The commonality behind the shows presented in Section 2 was that they addressed ethical interrogations about the role of AI in comedy. In this section, we review shows that investigate how to effectively deliver computational humor on stage.

### 3.1 AI co-creating real-time comedy dialogue

The development of large language models and conversational AI applications mostly focuses on single-user text-based dialogue. Speech recognition and dialogue systems struggle with Multi-Party Chat (MPC). Branch et al. (2024) describe how they approached this problem in *Improbotics* performances, where multiple actors interact with an AI *Cyborg* stage partner, just like in a traditional improv comedy show featuring a large cast in a lively performance. Instead of simple turn-taking in human-chatbot dialogue, the troupe resorts to human-in-the-loop curation of continuously AI-generated lines, where the most comedic or relevant lines are sent to the Cyborg performer via an earpiece; introducing a second performer who takes responsibility for selecting the AI-generated line creates a “writer’s room” setup and introduces two levels of human interpretation of AI-generated material. In their 2024 performances at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, the troupe replaced earpieces by augmented-reality glasses, delegating the role of AI line curation to the Cyborg performer, who would simultaneously read some of the AI-generated lines and try to maintain eye contact with stage partners.

Timing! The most important rule of comedy is... *Improbotics* needed to design both technology (fast speech recognition and language models, and asynchronous generation) to accelerate the robot’s responses (Branch et al., 2024), and dramaturgy (“slow-burn” improv scenes relying on non-language communication to fill the time lags) (Mathewson and Mirowski, 2018). Improviser Cyborgs expressed they had struggled with AI generated lines because of slow timing and delays; their perception was that the audience preferred timely responses to higher quality but delayed responses.

In Oregon, Prof. Naomi Fitter focused on comedy timing as she has been running since 2019 regular comedy nights where her robot comedian Jon relies on audience laughter to control the timing and delivery of jokes (Srivastava and Fitter, 2021).

### 3.2 AI for inspiration and world building

Liveness in AI improv shows is not limited to dialogue: human actors can leverage AI-generated ideas for real-time performance. Notably, San Francisco-based Alexa Improvise[^17] has used an AI assistant for game ideas since 2018; *Yes, Android* by Toronto company *Bad Dog*[^18] featured actors reading LLM-generated lines in 2017; Nouméa-based *La Claque*[^19] incorporated French-language AI for short-form improv suggestions in 2023; and India-UK troupe *ClimateProv* leveraged Gen AI to inspire climate-themed improvisation in 2022. Winters and Mathewson (2019) designed automatic slide generators[^20] for *Powerpoint karaoke* games.

Several projects explored LLMs for long-form improvisation by supporting storytelling. Notably *Plays by Bots*, staged since 2022 by Edmonton-based *Rapid Fire Theatre*[^21], rely on scripts co-written with *Dramatron* (Mirowski et al., 2023) to build the world for improvisers; and in 2021, *Improbotics* used an AI as narrator for long-form scenes (Branch et al., 2021b).

Finally, and while they do not use AI in real time during their performance, many comedians have presented material co-written with AI in front of live audiences, including Darren Walsh[^22] in 2023 and Anesti Danelis[^23] in 2024 at Edinburgh Fringe.

The commonality between all those shows is to employ computational humor systems as mere writing tools to support live human performance; as a consequence, audience evaluation is focused primarily on the human performers and how they engage with their audiences.

### 3.3 Live performance with AI in digital spaces

The development of computer-mediated communication technology has introduced a new way for humans to congregate and redefined the notion of liveness and audience interaction. Live performance

[^17]: https://ai.nickradford.dev/
[^18]: https://baddogtheatre.com/
[^19]: https://laclaqueimpro.com/
[^20]: https://talkgenerator.com/
[^21]: https://rapidfiretheatre.com/
[^22]: https://darrenwalsh.co.uk/
[^23]: https://www.anestidanelis.com/
