traced back to Rhapsodes in Ancient Greece or to Commedia dell’Arte (Lea, 1934; Collins, 2001; Mathewson, 2019). Because it relies on natural human interaction and demands constant adaptation to an evolving context, theatrical improvisation (like jazz) has been qualified as “*real-time dynamic problem solving*” (Magerko et al., 2009; Johnson-Laird, 2002). According to Mathewson and Mirowski (2018) “*improv requires performers to exhibit acute listening to both verbal and non-verbal suggestions coming from the other improvisers, split-second reaction, rapid empathy towards the other performers and the audience, short- and long-term memory of narrative elements, and practiced storytelling skills*”, making it a highly interesting challenge for AI systems. Interestingly, theatrical improvisation encourages risk taking and experimentation, and it even “celebrates failure” thanks to a tacit agreement between improvisers and audiences who acknowledge the challenge of making up comedic material live on the stage. The improv stage thus provides a “safe” environment to test technological tools like artificial intelligence.

What follows is a literature and performance review of the state of the art of computational humor systems deployed in real-time in front of live audiences, whether in physical or in virtual spaces. We group these according to the type of scientific or artistic questions that they raise, starting with questions around robotic **embodiment** of chatbots, anthropomorphism and **competition** between humans and machines (Section 2), and questions around **liveness, timing and utility** in the artistic process (Section 3). We address the human **interpretation** and **justification** of seemingly absurd AI-generated humor (Section 4) and finish with a discussion on how the constraints of live audiences and performance spaces impact the choice of methodologies for evaluating computational humor (Section 5). We therefore suggest that the setting of live performance allows to define collaborative relationships between human comedians and AI tools.

## 2 Robot comedy as a test of humanity

As introduced in the previous section, a commonly held belief is that humor is seen as the last frontier of intelligence (Winters, 2021). Robot comedy can then be seen as a challenge to humanity itself[^1].

### 2.1 Can robots deliver comedy on stage?

Robot embodiment presents with unique challenges of audience reception. Some robotics and theater practitioners like Hiroshi Ishiguro and Oriza Hirata took the route of anthropomorphism (Pluta, 2016) to make the robot presence as human-like as possible, whereas others like Tom Sgouros built a custom robotic arm[^2] or even, like Annie Dorsen, simply staged two laptops “talking” philosophy[^3].

In 2010, social roboticist Prof. Heather Knight[^4] pioneered staged comedy performances with an Aldebaran Nao[^5] robot delivering human-written comedy and gathering audience feedback thanks to camera sensors that track audience sentiment following each line delivered by the robot, and used this information to modify next joke selection based on audience feedback (Knight et al., 2011). Starting in 2014, Austin, Texas-based multidisciplinary artist and engineer Arthur Simone staged toy-like humanoid robots to be his partners in improvised theater performances: *Bot Party: Improv Comedy with Robots*[^6], thus investigating how to improvise with a robot.

In 2016, theater improvisers and robotics researchers Dr. Piotr Mirowski and Dr. Kory Mathewson from duo *HumanMachine*[^7] developed large language models (Sutskever et al., 2014) for improvisational comedy (Mathewson and Mirowski, 2017a). Unlike previous, rule-based AI methods geared at generating comedy, they trained general conversational models (Vinyals and Le, 2015) trained on OpenSubtitles (Tiedemann, 2009). The language model was coupled with speech recognition to listen to their human partner, text-to-speech and text-dependent robotic control to operate a small scale robot such as the Nao or EZ-Robot JD Humanoid[^8]. Comedy derived from the human actor attempting to justify whatever the robot said.

Some of those robot performances incorporated implicit audience feedback (Knight et al., 2011; Mathewson and Mirowski, 2017a), but we hypothesize that audiences may have evaluated the novelty of the premises of those shows in addition to their comedic quality.

[^1]: This prompted comedy critic Logan (2023) to unwittingly center comedy over other art forms: “*unlike music and visual art, comedy can’t be easily reduced to an algorithm.*” (sic)

[^2]: https://sgouros.com/judy/

[^3]: https://anniedorsen.com/projects/hello-hi-there/

[^4]: https://www.ted.com/talks/heather_knight_silicon_based_comedy

[^5]: https://www.aldebaran.com/en/nao

[^6]: https://www.botparty.org/

[^7]: https://humanmachine.live

[^8]: https://www.ez-robot.com/
