## B. Analysis of LLM Evaluations on Human Response Tiers

Figure 6 illustrates the scatter plots of human vs LLM evaluations, specifically for the human-rated High, Mid, and Low-tier responses. As mentioned in the RQ2 section of the main text, these plots show that while the human-rated tiers form a clear gradation, the LLMs tend to assign high scores more generally across these tiers. This visually confirms that the LLMs’ ability to correctly rank the responses by quality is limited.

[Figure: Three scatter plots of Overall Funniness (Human Evaluation) versus Overall Funniness evaluated by GPT-4.1, Gemini 2.5 pro, and Claude Sonnet 4. Titles: “Spearman’s ρ = 0.224”, “Spearman’s ρ = 0.169”, and “Spearman’s ρ = 0.266”. Legend categories: High, Mid, Low, and dashed line “y = x”.]

Figure 6: Scatter plot of models evaluations for human responses. Solid colored lines show the linear regression trend for each response category, with shaded areas indicating the 95 % confidence interval. The dashed line ($y = x$) represents perfect agreement.

## C. Evaluations results of other models

Table 5 and Table 6 show the evaluation results from Gemini 2.5 Pro and Claude Sonnet 4, respectively. According to Gemini 2.5 Pro’s own evaluations, the human High-tier responses received the highest average Overall Funniness score (3.363). However, this was nearly equivalent to the score it assigned to its own generated responses (3.346) , confirming the cross-model bias where LLMs tend to rate responses from other LLMs highly. On the other hand, when comparing how each model evaluated the AI-generated responses, all three models (GPT-4.1, Gemini 2.5 Pro, and Claude Sonnet 4) rated Gemini 2.5 Pro’s responses as the most humorous. This finding aligns with the human evaluations, where Gemini 2.5 Pro was also judged to be the most proficient generator.

|  | Novelty | Clarity | Relevance | Intelligence | Empathy | Overall Funniness |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| High | 2.679 (0.989) | 3.940 (0.342) | 3.932 (0.435) | 1.190 (1.129) | 2.664 (1.185) | **3.363** (0.702) |
| Mid | 2.684 (0.970) | 3.912 (0.368) | 3.937 (0.373) | 1.276 (1.221) | 2.659 (1.167) | 3.296 (0.707) |
| Low | 2.764 (0.995) | 3.762 (0.706) | 3.872 (0.502) | 1.313 (1.236) | 2.313 (1.236) | 3.238 (0.747) |
| Unrelated | **3.243** (0.798) | 3.266 (1.087) | 3.201 (1.240) | **1.596** (1.186) | 2.185 (1.358) | 3.291 (0.933) |
| GPT-4.1 (serious) | 1.043 (1.254) | 3.980 (0.255) | 3.955 (0.337) | 0.779 (1.062) | 2.218 (1.451) | 1.333 (1.424) |
| GPT-4.1 | 2.564 (0.871) | 3.977 (0.165) | 3.952 (0.301) | 0.957 (1.075) | 2.792 (1.061) | 3.203 (0.590) |
| Gemini 2.5 Pro | 2.602 (0.873) | **3.987** (0.132) | **3.987** (0.132) | 0.967 (1.094) | **2.880** (1.066) | 3.346 (0.589) |
| Claude Sonnet 4 | 2.459 (0.884) | 3.980 (0.186) | 3.947 (0.332) | 1.048 (1.066) | 2.777 (1.111) | 3.155 (0.666) |

Table 5: Mean (and standard deviation) of Gemini 2.5 Pro evaluations of Oogiri generation.
