[Figure: Bar chart showing percentage consistency by representative image used in comparison. Y-axis: “% rating 1 and rating 2 consistent”; x-axis: “Representative image used in comparison”; bars labeled 1–8.]

Figure 4. **Participants showed self-consistency in the Comparison task.** The x-axis shows the representative images, while the y-axis shows the percentage of instances where a user’s second rating matched their first for comparison containing the particular comparison image. A 100% match is perfect self-consistency.

[Figure: Bubble scatter plot of Rating 1 vs Rating 2 with dashed diagonal line; larger bubbles indicate more ratings/pair.]

Figure 5. **Participants showed high self-reliability (Range Ratings).** Higher ratings denote more humorous images. For each participant, 10 images were presented twice at random time points to assess reliability. There was a strong correlation ($\rho = 0.89$) between the first and second ratings (1,800 pairs; circle sizes indicate number of ratings/pair). The dashed line shows the diagonal.

set consisting of only the original/modified pairs of images in the test set (testOnlyPairs).

## 4. Experiments

### Models

We evaluated state-of-the-art visual architectures, including vision-only and vision-language models, using both pretrained and non-pretrained settings. We evaluated the following models: DINOv2 large [33], ViT huge [10], Swin2 large [26], ConvNeXt large [27], ViTG-14 [21, 37], ResNet152 [15], LLaVA (in zero-shot and fine-tuned configurations) [24, 25], BLIP (fine-tuned) [20], GPT-4o (gpt-4o-2024-05-13) [32], and Gemini 1.5-002 Flash [38]. Pre-trained vision models were initialized with weights from either ImageNet [35] or LAION-2B [36]. BLIP and LLaVA, use a combination of various datasets for training. GPT-4o and Gemini-Flash do not open-source their training data.

For vision-only models in the Binary and Range tasks, we added a final fully connected layer for predictions (funny/not funny and 1–10, respectively). For the Comparison task, we extracted features before the classification layer, computed the difference between the two images’ features, and passed the difference to a classifier for prediction.

For vision-language models, we framed our tasks as VQA problems. For the Binary task, the prompts were “Is the image funny?” and “Is the image not funny?”, averaging results as performance was comparable between the two. For the Range task, we asked “What is the degree of funniness of this image from 1 to 10?” For the Comparison task in zero-shot setting, we prompted: “Given these two images, answer which is funnier with ’first’ or ’second’ and explain why succinctly”. We confirmed that removing the word ”succinctly” did not significantly alter performance.

We also used the words participants used to describe funny images (Comparison task). We selected words common in at least 30% of the responses for each image. For fine-tuning, we modified the prompt by using a prefix: “The prominent features of this image are: common words”.

Each experiment was conducted 5 times for all models except for GPT-4o and Gemini-Flash, which were run only. Further training details are shown in Appendix Sec. 7.1.

### Tasks

**Binary Task.** We measured accuracy, comparing the predicted label (“funny” or “not funny”) against the average human-based label (threshold of 0.5). Chance was 50%. To assess control for editing artifacts and model learning beyond HumorDB, we also evaluated model performance on an external set of 650 non-humorous, non-edited images (MSCOCO[23]: 250, Places365[41]: 400).

**Range Task.** We computed the root mean square error (RMSE) between the predicted rating (1–10) and the mean human rating. Chance levels were estimated under two null hypotheses: (i) sampling random labels from the empirical distribution of funniness ratings in the dataset, (ii) sampling uniform random integers in 1–10 (for zero-shot models).

**Comparison Task.** Accuracy was computed as the fraction of pairs correctly identified as “A is funnier” or “B is funnier,” matching the majority human vote. Chance was 50%.

**Testing VLM Explanations** We conducted a human evaluation of VLM explanations Participants rated explanations on a 1–5 scale based on: (1) how well they identified why an image is funny, and (2) factual accuracy of scene. We also used an automated mechanism by checking the presence of word synonyms from human annotations using: (1) All Words Score - considering all annotator words, and (2) Common Words Score - focusing on words appearing in at least 30% of human responses. (see Appendix Sec. 8).

**Attention Maps** We analyzed attention maps in vision transformers using attention rollout [1]. We produced global attention maps over image tokens for test images. For paired images, we approximated the humorous region
