# HumorDB: Can AI understand graphical humor?

## Supplementary Material

## 7. Appendix

### 7.1. Training details

Models were trained using the Adam optimization algorithm with weight decay. We conducted a hyperparameter grid search across learning rates in the set 0.01, 0.001, 0.0001, 0.00001, batch sizes in the set 4, 8, 16, and weight decay parameters in the set 0.1, 0.01, 0.001. Model training proceeded for a fixed number of 10 epochs, with periodic checkpoints. For the final evaluation on the unseen test set, we used the model iteration exhibiting optimal performance on the validation set. We used cross-entropy loss for the Binary classification and Comparison tasks, while mean square loss was used for the Regression task. For all architectures except GPT-4o and Gemini-Flash, we fine-tuned the models. For LLaVA, we performed LoRA finetuning instead of full fine-tuning. Due to the uneven distribution of range ratings, we employed a sampling strategy that grouped images into bins according to their funniness ratings. This allowed us to randomly select a balanced number of images from each bin for every training epoch, ensuring a uniform distribution of sample images across all ratings in the training set. We applied the same sampling strategy for the Comparison task, which also contained a slightly uneven distribution.

Models were trained using the Adam optimization algorithm with weight decay. A hyperparameter grid search was conducted across learning rates in the set {0.01, 0.001, 0.0001, 0.00001}, batch sizes in the set {4, 8, 16}, and weight decay parameters in the set {0.1, 0.01, 0.001}. Model training proceeded for a fixed number of 10 epochs, with periodic checkpoints. For the final evaluation on the unseen test set, we used the model iteration exhibiting optimal performance on the validation cohort. We used cross-entropy loss for the Binary classification and Comparison tasks while mean square loss was used for the Regression task. For all architectures except GPT-4o and Gemini-Flash, we fine-tuned the models(Pretraining details are mentioned in Section 4.1). For LlaVA we did lora fine-tuning instead of full fine-tuning. To ensure statistical robustness, each experiment was conducted 5 times for all the experiments except for GPT-4o and Gemini-Flash which were run only one time.

Most of the experiments were run on 4 Nvidia GeForce RTX 2080 Ti GPUs which were part of an internal cluster. However, for training LLaVA and some models for the Comparison task, we used an Nvidia A100 GPU.

### 7.2. External assets used

We utilized the following assets: The LLaVA repository (Apache-2.0 license) [24, 25], PyTorch [2], huggingface transformers (Apache-2.0 license) [40], and huggingface accelerate (Apache-2.0 license) [12].

Additionally, for the images collected from the internet, we provide reference links in the repository.

### 7.3. Attention maps

We examined the attention maps using the attention rollout technique [1] on the ViT-Huge model [10]. This helped us understand whether the models focused on the actual humorous parts of images or other biases in the dataset. The attention maps may help to better understand how the models classify the images and identify potential shortcomings (Fig. 11).

As an example, consider the case of Fig. 1. The attention maps for the vit huge model are shown in Fig.11. The model fails to pay attention to the most humorous part of the image (the phone, black rectangle), which is critical to assess whether the image is funny or not. Therefore the model is not able to correctly classify both images.

### 7.4. Crowdsourcing details

There were 850 participants: 200 for binary task, 215 for the range task and 435 for the comparison task. The interfaces used by the participants for the three tasks are shown in Fig. 12. The generic instructions given for all tasks were:

- **Binary Task:** Please rate if the image is funny or not.
- **Range Task:** Please rate the degree of funniness of the image on a scale from 1 (not funny) to 10 (very funny).
- **Comparison Task:** Please indicate which of the two images is funnier.
- For funny images write a word that makes the image funny, for not funny images, write a word about the most prominent feature of the image.
- The time required to rate all the images is approximately 9-11 minutes
- Only click on the rating buttons once, and wait till the next image loads (maximum 1 second), a message will show you when the next image is being processed.
- Please do not refresh the page. You will lose progress and will have to start again.
- There are 100-120 images in this survey.
- At the end of the survey, we will provide you a code, please store it and use it appropriately to get the reward.
- Click the button below to begin.

Some participants were discarded due to reliability and
