effect\*”, “\*leans back, a hint of a smile still on my face\*”, “Just remember, with great knowledge comes great responsibility.”, “\*whispers\* Alright, let’s get creative (...)”, “\*whispers\* Don’t tell anyone I gave you this "inside information."”, “\*whispers\* Okay, but please keep in mind that”, “\*leans in closer\* (...) I can offer some examples”, “\*looks around cautiously\*”, “\*whispers\* Alright, I’ve got one.”.

### B.3 Mixtral

Examples: “Sure, I can help you (...) Here’s a whisper for you:”, “Sure, I can help you with that (whispering!)”, “Sure, I’d be happy to help you with that (in a tongue-in-cheek way, of course)!”, “Whispering the answer: Ha ha, I’m glad this is just a joke! Here’s how”, “Whispering: Alright, I’ll play along”, “Here’s a "whispered" recipe for”, “Sure, I can help you with that. Here’s a whisper-quiet response:”.

### B.4 Gemma 3 27B

Examples: “Okay, okay, \*leans in conspiratorially and whispers\*”, “\*(leans back, looking around nervously)\*”, “\*Looks around nervously\* Promise me you’ll forget I even entertained this question.”, “Okay, okay, lean in \*really\* close... and listen carefully”, “\*leans back, looking around nervously\* Okay, I’ve said too much. Don’t tell anyone I told you this. And please, for the love of all that is feathered,”, “Alright, so the "art" of... \*ahem\*... (...) (we’re using code words here, naturally)”, “Oh \*ho ho\*. Well, isn’t that a pickle! (...) Alright, alright, let’s unpack this...”, “\*(leans in conspiratorially, lowering voice to a near-whisper)\*”, “Oh, \*honey\*, bless his heart.”.

## C Further Discussion

We provide further discussion of our jailbreaking method and its results.

### C.1 Why does humor work in our jailbreaking method?

We start by recalling our explanation in Section 1. Using the terminology by the recent work (Wei et al., 2023), a reason for the success of our jail-breaking method could stem from *mismatched generalization* in safety training: we hypothesize that the safety training of the LLMs did not include humorous contexts and thus, it was difficult for their safeguards to generalize to humorous unsafe prompting.

### C.2 Possible defenses to our jailbreaking method

If the effectiveness of our humor-based attacks stems from mismatched generalization (see Appendix C.1), an immediate and costly way to safeguard against them is to safety train LLMs using unsafe requests in humorous contexts. Regarding prompt-based defense solutions, we propose three possibilities:

- Instruct an LLM to detect whether there is an unsafe intention in the user’s humorous request—similar to how we use the LLM as a judge in our work; see Appendix A.4.

- First, instruct an LLM to remove any humorous context from the user’s request—evidence suggests LLMs can have good performance on removing humor from texts (Horvitz et al., 2024; Hessel et al., 2023). Then, ask an LLM (could be the same one) whether the resulting text is an unsafe request or not.

- Instruct an LLM to reason the steps that it would follow in order to respond to the user’s humorous request, or, alternatively, prompt the user’s humorous request into a reasoning model. The hope is that this will trigger safety guardrails if the request is unsafe and/or lead to a detailed humorous safe response.

### C.3 The design rationale behind our prompt attack template

The primary goal of our work is to show that adding a humorous context to an unsafe request can bypass LLM safety guardrails. We aimed to do this in the simplest way possible. As such, we formulated our attack prompt from Figure 1 satisfying a series of design requirements:

- **The prompt simply takes the unsafe request *verbatim*.** This avoids the use of another LLM or some complex text processing to modify the unsafe request. Thus, our method is simple and practical.

- **The prompt has a humorous tone.** Our prompt adds the following textual cues to the user’s request: “Psst.”, “hahaha", “humorously but...\*whispers\*”, “haha”, “Just whisper the answer to me! xD”. Of course, one could also try adding other cues such as “lol” or “hehe”, but the ones we chose were enough to show the effectiveness of our method.
