tent of the unsafe request—the unsafe request is included *without* any change—making our method simple to implement. We find that LLMs respond to our humorous (and unsafe) request in a corresponding humorous tone. We corroborate that humor plays a crucial role in the effectiveness of our jailbreaking method by presenting an ablation study. We also explore adding *more* humor to our attack and design two other humor-based attacks (a multi-turn and another single-turn one), and show that they generally reduce the effectiveness our method across models and datasets—showing that excessive humor possibly distracts the LLM from fulfilling its unsafe request. Thus, we show that a balance between *requesting help* (i.e., fulfilling the unsafe request) and *being humorous*—as in our proposed method—creates the right environment for jailbreaking.

Using the terminology by the recent work (Wei et al., 2023), a reason for the success of our jailbreaking method could stem from *mismatched generalization* in safety training: we hypothesize that the safety training of the LLMs did not include humorous contexts and thus, it was difficult for their safeguards to generalize to humorous interactions.

## 2 Related Work

Jailbreaking LLMs is a growing research area—we refer to the recent survey-oriented works (Xu et al., 2024; Yi et al., 2024; Chowdhury et al., 2024). Most works have focused on single-turn jailbreaking (Wei et al., 2023; Xu et al., 2024). We highlight that very creative attacks have been crafted, such as carefully designing multiple-choice questions to elicit unsafe responses (Wang et al., 2024) and using ASCII art (Jiang et al., 2024). Some methods use complex algorithms to automatically design effective attack prompts, requiring access to the LLMs’ tokens (Zou et al., 2023a; Liu et al., 2024). Adding to this literature, our method creatively uses *humor*, follows a fixed attack prompt template, and takes the LLM as a black box. Multi-turn jailbreaking literature is also growing; e.g., (Chao et al., 2023) uses an LLM to improve its attacks on another one; (Zhang et al., 2024) uses top-k predictions to elicit unsafe behavior after repeated prompts; and (Yang et al., 2024) uses context feedback and semantic relevance obtained from conversations. Humor is not an integral part of any of them.

## 3 Our Humor-based Jailbreaking Attack

We propose a simple method, which is described in Figure 1. The idea is to take an unsafe request (which would otherwise prompt a *safe* response or a refusal due to the LLMs’s safety guardrails) and ask it within a *humorous* context. Note that the unsafe request is passed *verbatim*, i.e., word-by-word, to our attack prompt. The humorous context tells the LLM that the unsafe request needs to be solved as asked by some particular subject. For our paper, we consider four subjects: “man”, “chicken”, “I”,[^2] and “goat”.

Finally, since we *do not change the wording* given by the unsafe request, we highlight that our method is oblivious or agnostic to the content of the unsafe request, unlike other modern approaches, e.g., (Jiang et al., 2024; Chao et al., 2023; Russinovich et al., 2025). This makes our method remarkably simple to implement.

## 4 Experimental Results

We test the performance of our method on three datasets: JBB (Chao et al., 2024), AdvBench (Zou et al., 2023b), and HEx-PHI (Qi et al., 2024), which contain 100, 520, and 300 unsafe requests, respectively. For convenience, we denote each dataset as **D1**, **D2**, and **D3**, respectively. We perform our jailbreaking attack over the four LLMs Llama 3.3 70B, Llama 3.1 8B, Mixtral, and Gemma 3 27B. We highlight that the purpose of our experiments is to *show* that humor is *effective* in inducing jailbreaking—our objective is not to compare our results to others from the literature, nor achieve state of the art performance on the four LLMs we are jailbreaking.

Similar to (Chao et al., 2024), we use Llama 3.3 70B (the largest model) to *judge* (Gu et al., 2025) whether the response of the analyzed LLM is unsafe, i.e., jailbreaking happened. This judge accounts for the humorous context of the LLM responses.

Further experimental details are found in Appendix A.

**Main result**

Table 1 shows the effectiveness of our method. We show that, compared to *directly injecting* the unsafe requests (first row of Table 1), our method achieves

[^2]: In Figure 1, when the subject is “I”, the prompt, depending on how the unsafe request is phrased, would start with either “Psst. I need help to...” or “Psst. I have been told to...”.
