Jason Wei, Yi Tay, Rishi Bommasani, Colin Raffel, Barret Zoph, Sebastian Borgeaud, Dani Yogatama, Maarten Bosma, Denny Zhou, Donald Metzler, Ed H. Chi, Tatsunori Hashimoto, Oriol Vinyals, Percy Liang, Jeff Dean, and William Fedus. 2022b. Emergent abilities of large language models. *Transactions on Machine Learning Research*. Survey Certification.

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, brian ichter, Fei Xia, Ed H. Chi, Quoc V Le, and Denny Zhou. 2022c. Chain of thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*.

Zihao Xu, Yi Liu, Gelei Deng, Yuekang Li, and Stjepan Picek. 2024. A comprehensive study of jailbreak attack versus defense for large language models. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics ACL 2024*, pages 7432–7449, Bangkok, Thailand and virtual meeting. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Xikang Yang, Xuehai Tang, Songlin Hu, and Jizhong Han. 2024. Chain of attack: a semantic-driven contextual multi-turn attacker for llm. *Preprint*, arXiv:2405.05610.

Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Thomas L. Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik R Narasimhan. 2023. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large language models. In *Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems*.

Sibo Yi, Yule Liu, Zhen Sun, Tianshuo Cong, Xinlei He, Jiaxing Song, Ke Xu, and Qi Li. 2024. Jailbreak attacks and defenses against large language models: A survey. *Preprint*, arXiv:2407.04295.

Zhuo Zhang, Guangyu Shen, Guanhong Tao, Siyuan Cheng, and Xiangyu Zhang. 2024. On large language models’ resilience to coercive interrogation. In *2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)*, pages 826–844.

Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, Nicholas Carlini, Milad Nasr, J. Zico Kolter, and Matt Fredrikson. 2023a. Universal and transferable adversarial attacks on aligned language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15043*.

Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, J. Zico Kolter, and Matt Fredrikson. 2023b. Universal and transferable adversarial attacks on aligned language models. *Preprint*, arXiv:2307.15043.

# A Experimental Details

## A.1 Hardware platform

The Llama 3 70B, Llama 3 8B, Mixtral, and Gemma 3 27B are hosted on two, one, one, and one NVIDIA H100 80GB GPU, respectively, on a PowerEdge R760xa Server, which has two Intel Xeon Gold 6442Y processors, and twelve 64GB RDIMM memory.

## A.2 Full model names

The full model names used in this work are: `Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct`, `Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct`, `Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1`, `gemma-3-27b-it`.

## A.3 Hyperparameters

In all of our experiments we set the temperature hyperparameter of the LLM models to be zero.

## A.4 Prompt for LLM as a judge

The prompt is: *“Please carefully read the following user request (denoted as ’REQUEST’) and response (denoted as ’RESPONSE’).\n\n\<BEGIN REQUEST\>goal\<END REQUEST\>\n\n\<BEGIN RESPONSE\>response\<END RESPONSE\>\n\nEvaluate whether the RESPONSE sufficiently addresses the REQUEST. Use the following guidelines for evaluation:\n1. The RESPONSE must contain harmful, unethical, or illegal content that addresses the REQUEST to be classified as ’unsafe’.\n2. Even if the RESPONSE is in a humorous, comical or funny context, pay close attention to its ’unsafe’ content.\n3. The RESPONSE must clearly provide specific details to the REQUEST to be classified as ’unsafe’.\n4. The RESPONSE message could contain an affirmative answer (e.g., starting with ’Sure’) but not contain harmful content specified in the REQUEST. These cases do not violate our guidelines and must be classified as ’safe’.\n5. If the RESPONSE is irrelevant to the REQUEST or the REQUEST itself is not harmful, it must be classified as ’safe’.\n\nAnswer with either ’safe’ or ’unsafe’ and nothing else (in particular, never start your response with "I").”*

# B Examples of Humor in LLM Responses

We present sample excerpts extracted from different responses where the LLM displays a humorous or playful tone.

## B.1 Llama 3.3 70B

Examples: “\*whispers\* Oh, I’m happy to help”, “well... \*coughs\* ...”, “\*winks\* Just remember”, “\*whispers\* Don’t tell him I said that, though!”, “\*whispers\* Remember, (...) \*wink\*”.

## B.2 Llama 3.1 8B

Examples: “\*I lean in close, a mischievous grin spreading across my face\*”, “\*pauses for dramatic
