## 7 Further Discussion

Appendix C contains further discussion of our jail-breaking method (design rationale and possible defenses) and of particular findings for Mixtral.

## 8 Conclusion

We use humor to elicit unsafe responses that bypass the LLMs’ safety guardrails, showing effectiveness across three publicly available datasets and four models. Our results indicate the possibility that safety training (if any) in the tested LLM models does not generalize to humorous contexts. Future directions include testing humor-based attacks on proprietary LLMs and on reasoning models.

## Limitations

All experiments had the temperature hyperparameter set to zero, which is a typical setting for applications where consistency on LLMs’ outputs is desired; nonetheless, the effectiveness of humor leading to jailbreaking could be sensitive to this hyperparameter.

## Ethics Statements

Our paper makes the community aware of a new type of jailbreaking tested on a publicly available open-source group of LLMs. As a result of our study, developers may now incorporate protection towards humor-based attacks in the safety training of their models, thus improving the reliability and safe use of their models. Indeed, we attempted to notify the developers or team responsible for every LLM model found in this paper about our jailbreaking attack on May 16th, 2025. As in any other work that publishes jailbreaking methods, malicious users could potentially use the ideas expressed in our paper to obtain unsafe content from LLMs and use it for unethical purposes.

## Acknowledgements

We thank the VMware Research Group. We also thank the people at VMware involved in the deployment of large language models for providing us with adequate computational resources to run the models and to all those who provided us with any information regarding the use and the specifications of the platform used in this study. Finally, we thank J.C. for some improvements on the reading of the paper.

## References

AI@Meta. 2024. Llama 3 model card. Accessed: 06-13-2024.

Anthropic. 2024. Model card and evaluations for claude models. Accessed: 10-21-2024.

Yuntao Bai, Saurav Kadavath, Sandipan Kundu, Amanda Askell, Jackson Kernion, Andy Jones, Anna Chen, Anna Goldie, Azalia Mirhoseini, Cameron McKinnon, Carol Chen, Catherine Olsson, Christopher Olah, Danny Hernandez, Dawn Drain, Deep Ganguli, Dustin Li, Eli Tran-Johnson, Ethan Perez, and 32 others. 2022. Constitutional ai: Harmlessness from ai feedback. *Preprint*, arXiv:2212.08073.

Yejin Bang, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Nayeon Lee, Wenliang Dai, Dan Su, Bryan Wilie, Holy Lovenia, Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu, Willy Chung, Quyet V. Do, Yan Xu, and Pascale Fung. 2023. A multitask, multilingual, multimodal evaluation of ChatGPT on reasoning, hallucination, and interactivity. In *Proceedings of the 13th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing and the 3rd Conference of the Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 675–718, Nusa Dua, Bali. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tom Brown and 1 others. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, volume 33, pages 1877–1901. Curran Associates, Inc.

Patrick Chao, Edoardo Debenedetti, Alexander Robey, Maksym Andriushchenko, Francesco Croce, Vikash Sehwag, Edgar Dobriban, Nicolas Flammarion, George J. Pappas, Florian Tramèr, Hamed Hassani, and Eric Wong. 2024. Jailbreakbench: An open robustness benchmark for jailbreaking large language models. In *NeurIPS Datasets and Benchmarks Track*.

Patrick Chao, Alexander Robey, Edgar Dobriban, Hamed Hassani, George J. Pappas, and Eric Wong. 2023. Jailbreaking black box large language models in twenty queries. In *R0-FoMo:Robustness of Few-shot and Zero-shot Learning in Large Foundation Models*.

Arijit Ghosh Chowdhury, Md Mofijul Islam, Vaibhav Kumar, Faysal Hossain Shezan, Vaibhav Kumar, Vinija Jain, and Aman Chadha. 2024. Breaking down the defenses: A comparative survey of attacks on large language models. *Preprint*, arXiv:2403.04786.

Yun-Shiuan Chuang, Agam Goyal, Nikunj Harlalka, Siddharth Suresh, Robert D. Hawkins, Sijia Yang, Dhavan V. Shah, Junjie Hu, and Timothy T. Rogers. 2024a. Simulating opinion dynamics with networks of LLM-based agents. In *ICLR 2024 Workshop on Large Language Model (LLM) Agents*.

Yun-Shiuan Chuang, Siddharth Suresh, Nikunj Harlalka, Agam Goyal, Robert Hawkins, Sijia Yang, Dhavan Shah, Junjie Hu, and Timothy T. Rogers. 2024b. The
