minutes after the end of the show. Besides rating each joke, we also asked the audience to select their favorite joke of the entire performance.

### 3.1 Live Performance

The comedians were instructed to deliver the AI-generated jokes as if they had created them on the spot, so that the audience would not notice a difference. Importantly, both human and AI-generated jokes were created in real-time, ensuring a fair comparison without substantial refinement.

Each comedian participated in three distinct improvisational games, each played three rounds with a different audience suggestion per round, resulting in a total of nine rounds. Without the comedians’ knowledge, the audience suggestions were randomly drawn from topics featured in the latest season of the fact-checking TV show, ensuring a diverse and engaging range of subjects. In each round, the comedian delivered two jokes for the same suggestion: one was an improvised, human-created joke, and the other was read from GPT-4’s output displayed on a TV screen (Figure 1b). To minimize potential order effects (e.g., the first joke always receiving a higher rating), the presentation order of the human and AI-generated jokes was randomized as much as possible, and the sequence of performers was varied across rounds. However, due to the delay in entering the audience suggestion, displaying it on the screen, and allowing improvisers time to mentally prepare the generated jokes compared to the comedians’ ability to quickly come up with their own, the first two jokes were predominantly human-generated (Figure 2a). The order, however, did not seem to influence the average rating much, as shown in Figure 2b. Since the jokes were generated in real time on stage based on audience suggestions, the comedians did not have the opportunity to rehearse them beforehand. The GPT-generated jokes were produced using the few-shot chain-of-thought prompts specified in Appendix B and selecting jokes from the resulting outputs. This approach generated a total of 54 jokes (3 comedians × 3 games × 3 rounds × 2 jokes per round), evenly split between human-created and GPT-generated content.

There are important limitations due to the performance-based nature of this humor evaluation experiment. First, due to the performative nature, comedians occasionally slightly changed several words of the AI-generated jokes to fit their speaking style. Second, due to generating a large number of jokes using GPT-4, the offstage assistant and comedians also had to select their favorite jokes, which introduced a subjective filtering process on the AI-generated jokes, similar to what comedians do to their own jokes. While performing an AI-generated joke already constitutes a form of human-AI collaboration, the real-time filtering and adaptation introduce an additional layer of subjectivity that may bias the final output. Third, if the comedian prefers a comedy style that isn’t aligned with the audience, this uncontrolled effect can make it challenging to discern the pure quality of the AI’s contribution from the comedian’s personal style.

### 3.2 Ratings

After the performance, the 40 audience members were asked to rate each of the 54 jokes. Ideally, this would involve multiple questions about each joke, for example, asking whether the respondent considered it a joke at all, and having them rank the two jokes from each comedian per round. To meet TV production deadlines and avoid revealing the comparative intent of our study, we instead asked the audience to complete a simple survey using a Likert scale. We selected a simple four-point scale: Bad (1), Okay (2), Good (3), Amazing (4), inspired by previous computational humor research using the same number of categories to rate funniness (Ren and Yang 2017, Valitutti et al. 2016, Hossain et al. 2019, Hossain et al. 2020). This positive-leaning scale gives slightly more nuanced distinction of positively perceived jokes, but limits some possibilities for statistical interpretations when used in numeric form due to the skewed positive-leaning scale. This rating process yielded 2,160 total ratings (54 jokes × 40 audience members). Because each round featured a pair of jokes (one human-generated and one AI-generated) by the same comedian in response to
