40 participants as the best joke of the whole performance, namely (with the audience suggestion prompt in italics)

> *Het antwoord is “seks op latere leeftijd”. De vraag is:* “Waarmee kan je zowel je heup als je erfenis naar de kloten helpen?”
>
> *(Dutch for: The answer is “sex as an elder”. The question is: “What can screw up both your hip and your inheritance?”)*

However, it’s important to note that this particular joke was one of the few jokes where the comedian adapted the joke strongly to their speaking manner while maintaining the core of the joke. The generated joke was “*Wat is de enige situatie waarbij je zowel je heup als je erfenis kan breken?*”, which translates to “What’s the only situation where you can break both your hip and your inheritance?”. Out of the remaining 22 “best joke” votes besides the votes for this joke above, 5 also went to a GPT-generated joke.

### 4.4 Variation Among Comedians

Ratings varied not only between human and AI jokes, but also between the three comedians (see Figure 3, Figure 4, and Figure 5). One comedian appeared to deliver GPT-4-generated jokes more effectively, using their performance skills and timing to enhance AI material. In contrast, another comedian received much lower ratings for their AI-delivered content. This underscores the influence of performance on audience perception, and the ability for comedians to deliver material that they did not create themselves convincingly.

[Figure: Bar chart titled “Histogram of GPT-4 Jokes Scores per Player”. Y-axis label “Count”; X-axis label “Quality” with categories Bad, Okay, Good, Amazing. Legend titled “index” with ComedianA, ComedianB, ComedianC.]

Figure 4: Histogram of GPT-4-generated joke ratings across all comedians, displaying that comedian *B* was much better at delivering AI-generated jokes and the opposite for comedian *C*.
