Branwen, Gwern (2020), GPT-3 creative fiction. https://www.gwern.net/GPT-3.

Brown, Tom B, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. (2020), Language models are few-shot learners, **33**, pp. 1877–1901, Curran Associates, Inc.

Castro, Santiago, Matías Cubero, Diego Garat, and Guillermo Moncecchi (2016), Is this a joke? detecting humor in spanish tweets, *Ibero-American Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, Springer, pp. 139–150.

Chan, Yu-Chen, Tai-Li Chou, Hsueh-Chih Chen, and Keng-Chen Liang (2012), Segregating the comprehension and elaboration processing of verbal jokes: an fMRI study, *Neuroimage* **61** (4), pp. 899–906, Elsevier.

Frolovs, Martins (2019), Teaching GPT-2 transformer a sense of humor, *Towards Data Science*. https://towardsdatascience.com/teaching-gpt-2-a-sense-of-humor-fine-tuning-large-transformer-models-on-a-single-gpu-in-pytorch-59e8cec40912.

Gervais, Matthew and David Sloan Wilson (2005), The evolution and functions of laughter and humor: A synthetic approach, *The Quarterly Review of Biology* **80** (4), pp. 395–430, The University of Chicago Press.

Hossain, Nabil, John Krumm, and Michael Gamon (2019), “president vows to cut <taxes> hair”: Dataset and analysis of creative text editing for humorous headlines, *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, Association for Computational Linguistics, Minneapolis, Minnesota, pp. 133–142. https://aclanthology.org/N19-1012.

Hossain, Nabil, John Krumm, Michael Gamon, and Henry Kautz (2020), Semeval-2020 task 7: Assessing humor in edited news headlines, *Proceedings of the Fourteenth Workshop on Semantic Evaluation*, pp. 746–758.

Hurley, Matthew M, Daniel Clement Dennett, Reginald B Adams Jr, and Reginald B Adams (2011), *Inside jokes: Using humor to reverse-engineer the mind*, MIT press.

Inácio, Márcio Lima and Hugo Gonçalo Oliveira (2024), Generation of punning riddles in portuguese with prompt chaining.

Jentzsch, Sophie and Kristian Kersting (2023), Chatgpt is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models, *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04563.*

Kojima, Takeshi, Shixiang Shane Gu, Machel Reid, Yutaka Matsuo, and Yusuke Iwasawa (2022), Large language models are zero-shot reasoners, *Advances in neural information processing systems* **35**, pp. 22199–22213.

Mathewson, Kory and Piotr Mirowski (2018), Improbotics: Exploring the imitation game using machine intelligence in improvised theatre, *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment*, Vol. 14, pp. 59–66.

Mathewson, Kory W. and Piotr Mirowski (2017), Improvised theatre alongside artificial intelligences, *AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment.*

Mirowski, Piotr, Kory Mathewson, Boyd Branch, Thomas Winters, Ben Verhoeven, and Jenny Elfving (2020), Rosetta code: Improv in any language, *Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Computational Creativity* pp. 115–122, Association for Computational Creativity.
