scenario, similar to previous evaluations using improvisational theater (Mathewson and Mirowski 2017, Mathewson and Mirowski 2018, Mirowski et al. 2020).

### 2.3.2 Unfair Comparison

A major challenge in existing humor evaluation literature is the inherent bias in comparing polished human jokes with raw, unfiltered AI-generated content. When evaluating the quality of generated jokes, studies often compare against existing human-created jokes (Petrović and Matthews 2013, Binsted et al. 1997, Tikhonov and Shtykovskiy 2024). These human jokes used for evaluation typically come from two sources: existing performances from professional comedians and curated collections like joke books, online repositories, or social media. In essence, the human material you find in existing humor datasets has already been subject to a process akin to natural selection. Comedians tend to filter out bad jokes from their set and refine the phrasing of successful ones based on audience feedback. Existing folklore jokes also undergo a similar filtering and refinement process, as people typically change the way they retell a joke, and thus mutate the joke. The best mutations have a higher probability of spreading over the population and mutating into even better versions, and eventually end up in these curated collections of high-quality jokes. While these better jokes are also more likely to end up in the training data of LLMs and thus improve their quality of joke writing, we expect the LLMs to produce novel jokes in humor generation evaluations. This is often hard to guarantee, as earlier versions of ChatGPT have been shown to produce jokes that are highly similar to existing jokes when using simple prompts (Jentzsch and Kersting 2023). By enforcing enough constraints, such as using complex topics and requiring the joke to follow a given pattern, we drastically reduce the risk of reproducing existing jokes. Comparing polished human jokes to raw generated output might thus lead to unfair comparisons that underestimate the potential of the computational methods.

In our design, both human and AI jokes are created in a live improvisational context, which aims to minimize the discrepancy of refinement and selection time between human and AI produced jokes. Improvising these jokes on stage based on audience suggestions means that there is little preparation time and no time to revise the joke based on external feedback, allowing direct comparisons of human-created jokes under similar constraints as an automated humor generation.

### 2.3.3 Subjectivity

Humor perception is highly subjective and can vary dramatically based on cultural background, personal experience, and even mood. The popular use of Likert scales also makes comparison between different raters harder. While one rater might rate most jokes between 3 and 5 stars, another might rate between 1 and 4, while meaning the same funniness. While Likert-scale ratings from multiple annotators are standard practice, these often show low inter-annotator agreement, reflecting the personal nature of humor (Winters et al. 2018). To reduce this subjectivity, we compare the ratings for human-created and AI-generated jokes per participant and per performer, and evaluate whether one was rated higher, lower, or equally.

## 3. Experimental Setup

We enlisted three professional Dutch improvisational comedians with extensive live performance experience. The performance<sup>2</sup> took place before a live studio audience of 40 individuals (Figure 1a). Importantly, the audience members were unaware that some jokes were AI-generated, to avoid expectation bias (Bower and Steyvers 2021). Immediately after the full on-stage performance, the audience filled in a questionnaire containing Likert-scale ratings for each performed joke within 15

<sup>2</sup> Recorded by DPG Media for the Belgian TV-show “Ze Zeggen Dat” (Season 4, Episode 7), accessible at: https://lfvp-static-overlays.dpgmedia.net/3/247901632
