Finally, we compared the performance of LLMs and humans for both humor detection and appreciation. Humans were more accurate overall (81.4%) than GPT-3 (67.5%), Llama-3-70B (70%), Llama-3-8B (67.8%), or Mixtral 8×7B (62%); see Fig. 3 for a direct comparison. Table 2 reports the classification of jokes versus the straight control sentences in terms of precision, recall, and F1 for comparison with prior reports in the computational humor literature. Using the F1 metric, the Mixtral-8×7B model achieved quite comparable results to humans.

As noted above (Table 2), GPT-3 exhibited a strong bias toward “no” responses (Fig. 2); this is also evident in Fig. 3, which compares the probability of a joke interpretation in humans and each LLM. Interestingly, for humor detection, GPT-3's responses were less *affected* by final-word surprisal than were the human responses (Fig. 4a); an interaction between Source (human vs. GPT-3) and final-word surprisal explained more variance than a model omitting only the interaction (X^(1) = 6.99, *p* = .008). There was also an interaction between Source and final-word Surprisal for funniness ratings (X^2(1) = 14.29, *p* < .001), though in this case, the effect of surprisal was larger for GPT-3 than for humans (Fig. 4b). (See Supplementary Analysis 5 for a visualization including the other LLMs.)

**Table 2**

Classification performance: Joke versus straight control sentences (rounded to two decimal places)

| Model | Precision | Recall | F₁ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| GPT-3 | 0.9 | 0.23 | 0.36 |
| Mixtral8-7B | 0.67 | 0.98 | 0.8 |
| Llama3-70B | 0.61 | 0.98 | 0.76 |
| Llama3-8B | 0.71 | 0.51 | 0.59 |
| Human | 0.78 | 0.84 | 0.81 |

Next, we asked about the relationship between humans and GPT-3's responses. Independent of whether a statement was a joke, the Log Odds assigned to the statement being a joke by GPT-3 was further predictive of human responses, as determined by model comparisons (X^(2) = 168.57, *p* < .001). This relationship was positive (*B* = 0.4, *SE* = 0.03, *p* < .001), that is, statements classified as jokes by GPT-3 were also more likely to be classified as jokes by humans—even for nonjokes. There was also a positive relationship between GPT-3's funniness ratings and human funniness ratings (X^(2) = 100.75, *p* < .001): items rated as funnier by GPT-3 were also rated as funnier by humans (*B* = 0.27, *SE* = 0.03, *p* < .001). The Pearson's correlation between GPT-3 funniness ratings and the average human funniness rating for a given item was *r* = .47. Funniness ratings from the open-source LLMs were all uncorrelated with human ratings.

In an exploratory analysis, we found that both relationships above—that is, between GPT-3 and human performance on both the detection and appreciation tasks—were statistically independent of final-word surprisal. That is, both associations remained significantly positive even when the models controlled for the surprisal of the critical (sentence-final) words.

Finally, we asked whether the GPT-3 funniness ratings for a given stimulus were more or less predictive of the *average* funniness rating for that stimulus than individual human ratings. Using a leave-one-annotator-out method (Trott, 2024b; Trott & Bergen, 2021, Trott, 2024a), we calculated two measures of correlation (Pearson's *r* and Spearman's *rho*) between each participant's funniness ratings and the mean funniness ratings for the items they viewed (leaving out their own ratings from the mean judgment); for each subsample, we also calculated the correlation between GPT-3's ratings and those means. The average human inter-annotator agreement was relatively strong (Pearson's: mean *r* = .58, *SD* = 0.17; Spearman's: mean *rho* = 0.56, *SD* = 0.17), suggesting reasonable agreement between human participants on which statements were funny and which were not, albeit with considerable variance to be explained. Interestingly, the correlation between LLM judgments and the human average was also relatively strong (Pearson's *r* = .52; Spearman's *rho* = 0.6). Using either measure of correlation, the quality of GPT-3 judgments fell well within one standard deviation of the human average inter-annotator agreement.
