behavior cannot be explained as a function of having already seen the “answer key,” so to speak. Data leakage would, however, be a major issue for any study that used these materials to prompt GPT-3 to *generate* novel jokes.

Fifth, most available LLMs are trained on a dataset produced by an unrepresentative sample of primarily English speakers (Bender, Gebru, McMillan-Major, & Shmitchell, 2021). Their behavior cannot thus be taken as representative of English speakers, nor of humans more generally. In fact, recent work (Atari et al., 2023) suggests that GPT-3 in particular behaves similarly to residents of “WEIRD” polities (i.e., Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich, and Democratic). As others (Henrich, Heine, & Norenzayan, 2010) have pointed out, these concerns extend equally well to the majority of human samples in psychology experiments. Both our human and LLM results should be interpreted with this limitation in mind.

Finally, these tasks were only designed to assess the *cognitive* dimensions of humor. As noted earlier, many contemporary theories of humor also emphasize the *emotional* aspects of humor appreciation, such as heightened arousal (Apter & Desselles, 2012). When humans laugh at a joke, this laughter reflects not just understanding but also an emotional, physiological response. Although some recent research has elicited self-reported emotions in LLMs (Tavast, Kunnari, & Hämäläinen, 2022) or “induced” emotional states like anxiety (Coda-Forno et al., 2023), it remains unclear how to interpret these results. Future work could look to mechanistic or computational theories of emotion to inform questions about this component of humor processing.

# Conclusion

Overall, our findings suggest that distributional language statistics are sufficient to generate sensitivity to a specific kind of verbal humor, including the ability to detect one-line jokes, evaluate the entailments of these jokes, and appreciate which jokes are funny. The fact that GPT-3 and other LLMs achieve above-chance performance on these tasks is surprising, as it suggests that an apparently complex cognitive task can be achieved by a system trained to predict sequences of words. While this does not demonstrate that the *human* ability to appreciate one-liners derives purely from exposure to language, it does suggest that one possible pathway to this ability is linguistic experience. Nevertheless, there remains a gap between human performance and that of the LLMs (even GPT-4 trained with RLHF; see Supplementary Analysis 4), suggesting people recruit some additional resources and/or processing mechanisms.

What then accounts for the gap? One potential explanation is that the current generation of LLMs are fundamentally on the right track, and that further improvements in LLM architecture or training data will close the gap. While bigger models are not always more human-like (Kuribayashi et al., 2021), model performance does often scale with model size (Kaplan et al., 2020; Caucheteux & King, 2022). On this account, exposure to more human-like linguistic input or feedback (as with RLHF) would lead to better performance. An alternative explanation holds instead that some other, nonlinguistic capacity or experience is required. That could include an innate humor capacity, Theory of Mind, embodied world experience, or sophisticated conceptual models that enable processes like frame-shifting (Coulson, 2015). Future work could address this question by systematically comparing LLMs trained on different amounts of data or initialized with different numbers of parameters (see Supplementary Analysis 4 for an exploratory analysis of this nature, focusing on the GPT family of models in particular).

Humor is ubiquitous across human societies, and has even been called a “universal” by some (Dunbar, 2004). Yet, despite a range of theories (Howe, 2002; Norrick, 1986), it is unclear how humans acquire their sense of humor, and what cognitive mechanisms undergird the process of joke comprehension. In the current work, we addressed these questions by asking whether and to what extent the *distributional statistics* of language could account for the ability to detect, appreciate, and understand one-line jokes. Crucially, GPT-3, an LLM trained on linguistic input alone, exhibited above-chance performance in tasks designed to measure each of these abilities—though its performance was below that of humans. In addressing the deeper questions of where humor comes from—and what it means to “get” a joke—these results point to the possibility of a surprising answer: the statistics of language may not be *all* you need, but they get you some of the way there.
