meaning of the comprehension probe was entailed by the earlier sentence. On four “catch” trials, evenly spaced throughout the experiment, the experimental sentence was replaced with a sentence instructing the participant to select “yes” or “no” on the following screen to check if they were paying attention. Before the experimental trials, participants engaged in three example trials (one trial of each stimuli type) with feedback to make sure they understood the task. An example of the task paradigm is shown in Fig. 5.

**Fig. 5**

In the comprehension task, participants read a statement on the first screen, and were then asked whether a follow-up sentence was *consistent with* the first sentence.

## Human results

We first asked whether human comprehension success varied as a function of Condition (Expected vs. Joke vs. Straight) and Correct Answer (Yes vs. No). As outlined in our preregistration, the analysis involved statistical model comparison via likelihood ratio tests. A generalized linear model with both factors as fixed effects (and random intercepts for subjects and items) explained significantly more variance than a model omitting only Condition ($X^2(2) = 34.33, p < .001$); Correct Answer did not significantly improve model fit, though the effect was trending ($X^2(1) = 3.35, p = .07$). There was no significant interaction between the factors. Most relevantly, human accuracy was significantly lower for jokes (84.7%) than expected (92.2%) or straight (91.6%) statements. In sum: humans performed above chance for all conditions, but were slightly better for nonjoke statements than joke statements; they also performed equally well regardless of whether the correct answer was “yes” or “no” (i.e., regardless of whether the probe statement was actually entailed by the critical item).

## GPT-3 comprehension study

Each of the 400 sentences was presented to text-davinci-002 (the best “purely distributional” GPT-3 model) using the OpenAI Python API. Each item was presented as a separate “trial” to avoid contamination between items. Each stimulus was also presented with instructions identical to those given to humans. As in the human task, GPT-3 was asked whether or not the second sentence was consistent with the first sentence. Specifically, the full prompt presented to GPT-3 for each item can be found in Table 1. To determine GPT-3's “answer,” we compared the probability GPT-3 assigned to completing the question about entailment with “Yes” or “No.” We then calculated the log odds of these probabilities: log(p(yes) / p(no)). The log odds captures whether GPT-3 assigns a higher probability to completing the question with “yes” (>0) or “no” (<0). For questions in which the correct answer was “yes,” log odds should be greater than 0; for questions in which the correct answer was “no,” log odds should be less than 0.

Additionally, we manipulated whether text-davinci–002 was presented with the same three examples presented to humans in practice trials (“few-shot”) or whether it was prompted “zero-shot,” that is, without examples. Note that presenting these examples did not involve any fine-tuning (i.e., changing model weights); rather, they were included in the prompt for each trial (Brown et al., 2020). This procedure is sometimes called in-context learning (Dong et al., 2022).

Finally, as in Study 1, we followed an identical procedure using the other open-source models, Mixtral 8-7B and Mixtral 8–22B (Jiang et al., 2024), and Llama-3-8B and Llama-3-70B (Dubey et al., 2024). The Mixtral and Llama models were run using the HuggingFace inference endpoints API. Log probabilities for these models were collected in the same way they were collected with GPT-3, by comparing the log probabilities of the entailment followed by a “Yes” or “No.”

## LLM results
