(more positive) value indicated that GPT-3 produced a relatively higher probability for either “yes” or “no,” whereas a smaller value (closer to zero) indicated that GPT-3 assigned more similar probabilities to each response. Focusing on correct responses only, we built a linear mixed effects model predicting log response time (RT), with fixed effects for Absolute Log Odds and Is Joke, as well as random intercepts for participants and items. Both predictors were significantly related to log RT: RT was slower for jokes overall ($B = 0.04, SE = 0.01, p = .02$), but decreased as a function of Absolute Log Odds ($B = 0.01, SE = .002, p < .001$). In other words, even accounting for whether an item was a joke, GPT-3's “confidence” (operationalized via Absolute Log Odds) was correlated with how quickly people produced correct responses.

To summarize: humans, as well as all the LLMs tested, exhibited worse performance for jokes than nonjokes (with the exception of Meta-Llama-3-8B, which performed close to chance for both). Further, the best-performing LLMs (GPT-3 and Meta-Llama-3-70B) were considerably worse than humans at understanding jokes. Together, these results suggest that distributional statistics as reflected in GPT-3 and the open-source models are sufficient to produce *above-chance comprehension* of both joke and nonjoke stimuli, but fall short of *human-level performance* for jokes.

## General discussion

Our central question was whether exposure to language is sufficient to account for the ability to detect, appreciate, and understand the entailments of one-line jokes, or whether this skill requires social or embodied experience. In a series of preregistered experiments, we found that GPT-3, an LLM trained only on linguistic input, achieved above-chance performance on each of these tasks. Similarly, we found that three open-source LLMs achieved above-chance performance on both the detection and comprehension tasks (though not the appreciation task). Importantly, however, the performance of all LLMs tested fell short of human performance. Humans were better at discriminating jokes from nonjokes and were better at joke comprehension. Although both humans and LLMs exhibited worse comprehension for jokes than nonjokes, the LLMs were especially bad at understanding jokes. However, human decisions about which statements were jokes—and how *funny* those statements were—were correlated with measures derived from GPT-3. Together, these results suggest that distributional statistics can, to a certain extent, explain humor comprehension and appreciation. Further, both humans and LLMs appear to rely in part on distributionally informed “heuristics” when making decisions about whether or not an utterance is a joke, as well as how funny it is.

### LLMs can detect one-liners

One notable finding is that all models tested were above-chance on the joke detection task, and some performed very comparably to the humans. Indeed, performance was impressive compared to that of systems explicitly designed to detect jokes (e.g., Mihalcea et al., 2010), in contrast to LLMs intended for general-purpose natural language processing tasks. Our findings here align with other studies that have targeted pragmatic phenomena in LLMs that have shown human-like performance on inferential aspects of language comprehension. Further, both humans and the LLMs treat high surprisal as a cue that an utterance may be a joke, in line with the claim that models and humans are sensitive to similar linguistic cues (Hu et al., 2022). This was most evident in the finding that in humans and LLMs, greater final-word surprisal values were associated with false alarms to nonjoke materials. In this respect, our findings are reminiscent of earlier work in computational humor that indicates surprisal and uncertainty as estimated by GPT-2 are excellent cues for the detection of jokes (Xie, Li, & Pu, 2020).

Importantly, however, our analysis indicates that the effect of whether or not a stimulus is a joke and the effect of surprisal were at least partially independent. This suggests that LLM performance on joke detection tasks goes beyond a simple surprisal threshold, reflecting instead some higher-level statistical regularities. Interestingly, to detect puns, Doogan and colleagues used word2vec embeddings to compute the semantic distance between each word and the other words in the context to reveal potential pun targets (Doogan, Ghosh, Chen, & Veale, 2017; see
