agents, as well as more general pragmatic reasoning abilities (Bischetti, Ceccato, Lecce, Cavallini, & Bambini, 2023) and embodiment (Bergen & Binsted, 2015; Bergen & Coulson, 2006; Samermit & Gibbs, 2016).

One underexplored (though intuitive) possibility is that our ability to understand humor conveyed through language is rooted in our experience with language itself. On such an account, the process of humor comprehension is supported in large part by probabilistic expectations about how language works. Specifically, the *distributional semantic hypothesis* or DSH (Firth, 2013; Harris, 1954; Lenci, 2008) proposes that much of our knowledge of meaning (e.g., what “dog” means) can be derived from statistical patterns observed in language (e.g., what other words tend to appear with “dog”). Critically, testing this hypothesis requires a sufficiently sophisticated model of distributional statistics, that is, a “best guess” of what kinds of behavior can be elicited in a system through exposure to large volumes of linguistic input.

Computational and machine learning techniques have long been applied to understand the mechanisms of verbal humor. Most of these techniques have relied on rule-based algorithms with explicitly engineered features such as structured joke templates (Ritchie, 2001). For example, the Script-based Semantic Theory of Humor formalized humor as the juxtaposition of contrasting “scripts” suggesting that verbal humor involves recognizing dual interpretations within language (e.g., puns, wordplay) providing a structured rule-based framework for modeling humor (Raskin & Raskin, 1984). Similarly, Attardo's General Theory of Verbal Humor has been applied in computational models by detecting oppositional scripts and logical mechanisms like absurdities or reversals, which often contribute to joke structure (Attardo, Hempelmann, & Di Maio, 2002).

Other computational approaches to linguistic humor have used a large set of one-liners to show that various linguistic features and content-based classifiers could be used to distinguish humorous and nonhumorous texts (Mihalcea & Strapparava, 2006). By combining measures of semantic relatedness with joke-specific linguistic features (e.g., polysemy, alliteration), Mihalcea and colleagues have shown how different varieties of classifiers can be used to distinguish the humorous punchline from several nonhumorous continuations (Mihalcea, Strapparava, & Pulman, 2010). Dooglan et al. (2017) focused specifically on the detection and interpretation of puns, using both phonetic and semantic properties to classify heterographic and homographic puns. Although this approach was successful in identifying humor in some instances of wordplay, these authors note the challenges presented by applying predefined linguistic features, and the need to generalize beyond specific rule sets.

The limitations of these approaches have also been noted for their relatively low accuracy rates and their difficulty in demonstrating how linguistic phenomena such as verbal humor relate to more general models of humor comprehension (see, e.g., Kao, Levy, & Goodman, 2016). By identifying the linguistic features and syntactic structure found in various forms of humor, these earlier studies offer valuable insights into the mechanics of verbal humor. But to speak directly to the question of whether the statistics of language can account for verbal humor, ideally one would want to assess humor detection in a system whose training objective is an accurate statistical model of language rather than one trained specifically to detect jokes.

Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) like GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) have made investigating this research question more tractable. LLMs are neural networks with millions or even billions of parameters; through exposure to massive linguistic corpora (i.e., hundreds of billions of words), they learn to make predictions about which words are most likely to occur in a given linguistic context. These models do not have embodied or social experience (Bender & Koller, 2020), nor are they precoded with knowledge about language or the world. Nonetheless, fully trained models appear to acquire knowledge about language (Manning, 2022, Li, Nye, & Andreas, 2021) and even the world (Lewis & Lupyan, 2020; Marjieh, Sucholutsky, van Rijn, Jacoby, & Griffiths, 2023). Further, LLM-generated behavior accurately predicts measures of human processing, including reading time (Goodkind & Bicknell, 2018), neural activity (Michaelov, Bardolph, Van Petten, Bergen, & Coulson, 2024; Michaelov, Coulson, & Bergen, 2022), and psycholinguistic ratings (Trott & Bergen, 2021). Most relevantly, LLMs display surprisingly good performance on tasks that involve pragmatic reasoning (Hu, Levy, Degen, & Schuster, 2023) and Theory of Mind (Jones, Trott, & Bergen, 2023; Kosinski, 2023; Trott, Jones, Chang, Michaelov, & Bergen, 2023)—cognitive capacities presumed to be important for joke comprehension. On the other hand, LLMs
