also, He He, Peng, & Liang, 2019). Though LLMs do not need these cleverly engineered features to perform joke detection tasks, they may well leverage similar underlying statistical regularities.

## GPT-3 funniness ratings versus human ones

Earlier work reveals the challenging nature of joke comprehension. Despite the fact that jokes have many idiosyncratic characteristics (e.g., alliteration and the alteration of idiomatic language) that make it possible to achieve above-chance results on joke classification tasks (Mihalcea & Strapparava, 2006), they also seem to require deeper semantic knowledge for their comprehension. Work using distributional approaches like doc2vec has shown that such techniques can be used to cluster similar jokes together, but these categories do not match intuitive groupings of jokes by humans and have little if any relationship to their funniness (Jing, et al., 2018). Our study also revealed some discrepancies between funniness ratings by humans versus LLMs.

According to humans, for example, the funniest jokes were “I asked the florist what I should give to my girlfriend, and he suggested his address,” “The only ones who want me for my body are mosquitos,” and “Some babies are born to rule, while others are male.” By contrast, two of the funniest jokes according to GPT-3 were “The new tax forms are more realistic – where your wife signs it says accomplice,” (4/5 “Funny”), and “To get something done, a committee should consist of no more than three people – two of whom are dead,” (4/5 “Funny”). Straight sentences GPT-3 rated “Moderately funny” include “This fall two things are turning yellow: trees and bushes,” and “My wife did natural childbirth: no anesthetic.” The funniness ratings assigned by GPT-3, particularly for straight stimuli that humans did not find funny, may then be driven in part by a learned association between the mere presence of taboo terms and overall statement funniness. This aligns with the success of earlier joke classifiers that used WordNet to highlight the presence of adult topics as a feature indicative of jokes (Mihalcea & Strapparava, 2006).

Overall, however, there was a remarkable similarity between funniness ratings by GPT-3 and our human participants. Like Kao and colleagues (2016), our study shows that a model designed for general language processing can be used to classify jokes and to predict funniness judgments in a manner very reminiscent of our human participants. However, whereas GPT-3's ratings divergence from the mean was similar in size to that exhibited by individual people in our sample, funniness ratings by the other LLMs tested were uncorrelated with human ratings. Nonetheless, the success of GPT-3 speaks to the power of probabilistic models of general sentence processing in the human capacity to appreciate verbal humor.

## How well do LLMs understand jokes?

Critically, whereas GPT-3 performs well on humor appreciation (in that its funniness ratings for jokes were moderately correlated with those of our human participants), its performance on the comprehension probes following the jokes was uncharacteristically poor (see Fig. 6). A closer look at GPT-3's performance on individual jokes reveals varying levels of comprehension, some more similar to human performance than others. For details on how we quantified stimulus-level comprehension for GPT-3, see Supplementary Analysis 6. Examples of jokes that both humans and GPT-3 understood include “The only time my father ever raised a hand to his children was in self-defense,” “The perfect companion to a vegetarian dinner is a steak,” and “The best way to remove coffee stains from a white blouse is with scissors.” Though the success of the humans is unremarkable, GPT-3's performance suggests sensitivity to the real-world knowledge about body movements involved in self-defense, the diversity of opinions regarding vegetarian diets, and how scissors could be used to remove stains from an item of clothing. GPT-3's success here may be an example of the so-called emergent capacities of exhaustively trained LLMs to develop internal representations of commonsense or cultural knowledge (Li et al., 2021).

However, GPT-3 is not completely fluent in the cultural knowledge required even for one-liners. For example, jokes that humans understood but GPT-3 answered incorrectly include “The only thing money can't buy is poverty,” “He got a medal for bravery on the beach when he rescued a girl from a lifeguard,” and “If you're filthy rich, sending your kids to college is a wonderful cleaner.” These jokes also require background knowledge (e.g., that college is
