joke. Model selection began with an intercept-only model which was compared to one including Is Joke (viz., whether or not the statement actually was a joke); in turn, the model including Is Joke was compared to one including Is Joke and Surprisal. Note that the nonjokes included both the “straight” versions of the jokes and the set of “expected” controls. In general, detection accuracy was relatively high (81%). Analysis suggested our participants were more likely to respond that a statement was a joke when it actually was a joke. The model including Is Joke (with random intercepts for participants and items) explained significantly more variance than the model omitting Is Joke ($X^2(1) = 345.07, p < .001$). Independent of whether a statement actually was a joke, there was an additional effect of final-word Surprisal ($X^2(1) = 81.39, p < .001$). Humans were more likely to think statements were jokes if those statements had high-surprisal final words.

We also asked which factors predicted human funniness ratings. These analyses involved linear mixed effects regression models in which the dependent measure was funniness ratings and fixed effects Is Joke and Surprisal. Random intercept terms for participants and items were included in all models. Model comparisons indicated that the best model of funniness ratings was one with main effects of Is Joke, Surprisal, and an interaction between the two factors. That is, the model with both main effects explained more variance than a model whose sole fixed effect was Is Joke ($X^2(2) = 20.3, p < .001$) and a model whose sole fixed effect was Surprisal ($X^2(2) = 296.56, p < .001$). Critically, the model containing an interaction between Is Joke and final-word Surprisal explained more variance than a model with just the main effects of each ($X^2(2) = 17.28, p < .001$). The interaction results because final-word Surprisal was associated with higher funniness ratings for nonjoke materials, but not for statements correctly classified as jokes.

To summarize: humans were more likely to classify jokes as jokes, though the likelihood of classifying a statement as a joke was further predicted by the surprisal of the statement's final word. Moreover, as expected, human funniness ratings were higher for jokes than nonjokes, and also higher for nonjokes with high-surprisal final words than those with low-surprisal endings. The interaction between Is Joke and Surprisal reflects the fact that participants found the high and low surprisal jokes to be equally funny, while nonjoke sentences with more surprising endings tended to be rated slightly funnier than those with less surprising endings.

## LLMs

To determine GPT-3’s “answer” for the Detection Task, we computed the probability that GPT-3 assigned a “Yes” response to the question “Is this statement a joke?” as well as that for a “No” response. We then calculated the log odds of these probabilities: $\log(p(\text{yes}) / p(\text{no}))$. Intuitively, the log-odds ratio captures whether GPT-3 assigned a higher probability to completing the question with “yes” (>0) or to “no” (<0). For questions in which the correct answer was “yes” (i.e., actual jokes), log odds should be higher than 0; for questions in which the correct answer was “no” (i.e., nonjokes), log odds should be lower than 0. Analysis revealed the Log Odds was significantly predictive of whether a statement was a joke ($B = 3.86, SE = 0.25, p < .001$), though GPT-3 was biased toward “no” responses for both nonjokes ($M = -5.44, SD = 2.66$) and jokes ($M = -1.58, SD = 2.2$); see Fig. 2. The open-source HuggingFace models also performed above chance on average, but interestingly did not universally display the same “no” bias—in fact, Mixtral-8x-7B and Llama-3-70B showed a “yes” bias. Both models achieved higher accuracy for jokes (Mixtral-8x-7B: 97.5%; Llama-3-70B: 98.1%) than nonjokes (Mixtral-8x-7B: 52.5%; Llama-3-70B: 38.3%). Llama-3-8B performed better for nonjokes (79.2%) than jokes (50.6%).

**Fig. 2**

Joke classification performance. Although GPT-3 was biased toward “no” responses overall (i.e., negative Log Odds), the ratio was less negative for jokes than nonjokes. All LLMs showed sensitivity to the joke versus nonjoke contrast. Human log odds were calculated for each item across individual participants by calculating the proportion of “yes” responses, then converting this probability to a log ratio (i.e., $\log(p(\text{yes})/(1 - p(\text{yes})))$).

In an exploratory analysis, we found that surprisal was also predictive of whether GPT-3 assigned a higher probability to a stimulus being a joke than a nonjoke (see Supplementary Analyses 1–3). Specifically, independent
