We conducted three analyses using responses from GPT-3. First, we established that “Yes” responses were significantly more likely when the correct answer was actually “Yes,” regardless of whether we used zero-shot prompting ($B = 10.05$, $SE = 0.46$, $p < .001$) or few-shot prompting ($B = 12.57$, $SE = 0.54$, $p < .001$). Second, we found that accuracy (measured by a positive Log Odds for “Yes” probes, and a negative Log Odds for “No” probes) did not significantly differ with zero-shot (84.2%) and few-shot (84%) prompting methods ($p > .05$). Finally, we found that accuracy did vary significantly as a function of Condition: a linear model containing an effect of Condition (joke vs. straight vs. expected) explained significantly more variance than an intercept-only model ($X^2(2) = 54.62$, $p < .001$). Focusing specifically on the zero-shot condition: accuracy was considerably lower for jokes (69.4%) than expected (96.2%) or straight (93.1%) statements. In summary, GPT-3 displayed above-chance performance for all statement types, including jokes, even in the zero-shot condition. However, comprehension success was lower for jokes than the literal statement types.

Using an identical statistical analysis to test the open-source HuggingFace models, we found that all models tested performed above chance on the comprehension task, and further, that their accuracy levels varied significantly across conditions. Llama-3-70B and Mixtral-8×7B both performed similarly in GPT-3 in that both models achieved higher accuracy for expected (Llama-3-70B: 95%; Mixtral-8×7B: 84.8%) and straight (Llama-3-70B: 96.2%; Mixtral-8×7B: 71.1%) statements than jokes (Llama-3-70B: 75%; Mixtral-8×7B: 67.3%). Notably, Llama-3-70B outperformed GPT-3 in the joke condition. In contrast, Llama-3-8B performed relatively poorly for all three conditions: expected (47.5%), straight (53.1%), and joke (55.6%). The poor performance of Llama-3-8B is not surprising given its smaller size compared to the other models tested.

## Comparison of humans and LLMs

Finally, we asked whether humans and GPT-3 differed significantly in accuracy, and whether any gaps in performance were larger as a function of the type of statement. Note that results of the zero-shot prompting method were used in these comparisons.

A generalized linear model predicting by-item Accuracy (1 vs. 0) with Source (Human vs. LLM) as a fixed effect (with a random intercept for items) explained significantly more variance than a model omitting only Source ($X^2(2) = 8.9$, $p = .003$), indicating this factor affected performance on the comprehension task. Overall, human accuracy (89.5%) was significantly greater than that of the LLM (84.2%). Further, there was a significant interaction between Source and Is Joke, a factor representing whether the stimulus was a joke ($X^2(1) = 19.21$, $p < .001$). Specifically, for jokes, human accuracy (84.7%) was considerably *higher* than GPT-3 accuracy (69.4%); for nonjokes, human accuracy (91.9%) was slightly *lower* than LLM accuracy (94.2%); see Fig. 6 for a visual comparison comparing all the LLMs tested to humans. The same was true for the open-source models: even though Llama-3-70B outperformed GPT-3 (see the section above), none of the open-source HuggingFace models achieved human accuracy levels for the joke condition.

**Fig. 6**

Comparison of human and LLM performance for each stimulus type (Nonjoke vs. Joke) on the comprehension task. Select LLMs (e.g., Meta-Llama-3-70B and text-davinci-002) performed comparably to humans for nonjokes, but humans outperformed all LLMs at understanding the entailments of joke statements.

In an exploratory analysis, we asked whether human responses were correlated with GPT-3's behavior above and beyond the key experimental manipulations. We constructed a full model predicting Response (Yes vs. No) with fixed effects of Condition (i.e., whether or not an utterance was a joke), Correct Response (i.e., whether the answer was Yes or No), GPT-3 Log Odds, and an interaction between Condition and Correct Response, as well as random intercepts for subjects and items. The addition of Log Odds significantly improved model fit when predicting individual responses ($X^2(1) = 61.811$, $p < .001$), indicating that human behavioral responses were indeed predicted by distributional statistics. We then asked whether humans were slower to produce correct responses for items on which GPT-3 was less “confident,” which we operationalized as the absolute value of the log odds: that is, a larger
