expensive), but the critical factor may be their ironic nature, as models of computational humor have encountered difficulty with irony (Mihalcea & Strapparava, 2006), and this difficulty persists in LLMs (Yakura, 2024).

The LLMs’ poor overall performance on comprehension probes fits with the claim that these models struggle with the recognition of social violations (Hu et al., 2022). Humor comprehension—even that required for these simple one-liners—would seem to present a “perfect storm” for LLMs whose emergent capacities may lack the social knowledge and commonsense reasoning capacities they require (Choi et al., 2023; Li et al., 2021; Mahowald et al., 2024).

## Limitations and future work

There are several potential limitations to the current work, suggesting promising directions for future research. First, the jokes considered were of a single type (i.e., one-liners). Even within the category of humor conveyed through language (e.g., puns, situational jokes, antijokes, stand-up comedy, etc.), it is possible that both humans and LLMs exhibit a range of performance. Nevertheless, because our question was about the *sufficiency* of distributional statistics in explaining humor capacities, the results provide a helpful proof-of-concept about the extent that language alone can account for joke appreciation and comprehension. Future work could consider a broader range of humor categories (see also Hu et al., 2022; Hessel et al., 2022; Jentzsch & Kersting, 2023), ideally with comparison to a human baseline.

Second, we considered only a subset of available LLMs: GPT-3 *text-davinci-002*, two variants of the Llama-3 model (70b and 8b), and Mixtral 8×7b. Within this set of models, our results were encouraging in that we identified similar patterns across all the LLMs tested. For example, even where the LLMs exhibited above-chance performance, they fell short of human performance; further, each LLM was more likely to misclassify nonjokes as jokes when those nonjokes had more surprising final words. However, a more thorough investigation into the humor capacities of LLMs could consider a range of LLMs varying in size, architecture, and training data. Inferentially, it is still unclear how exactly empirical claims obtained from a given *model instance* (e.g., Llama-3 70B) can be generalized across broader LLM classes. At the same time, finding even a single model instance that shows sensitivity to a given experimental manipulation is sufficient to disconfirm the null hypothesis that distributional statistics do *not* yield said sensitivity. Putting this in the context of our results: there exist at least several model instances that “pass” our operationalization of humor detection and comprehension, despite falling below human performance—but it is unknown whether other model instances would attain human-level performance on these tasks.

A related issue concerns the generalizability of these results across the different *prompts* used to elicit model behaviors. A growing body of research suggests that the behavior of LLMs is not always robust across the exact elicitation method used (Hu & Levy, 2023; Chatterjee, RenduChintala, Bhatia, & Chakraborty, 2024). Because our focus was on assessing LLM behavior relative to human behavior, our preregistered methods used the same instructions given to human participants, which allowed for a more direct comparison. Additionally, for the comprehension study in particular, we compared LLM performance across zero-shot and few-shot prompting conditions—and found no meaningful difference. Similar to the argument made above, this provides convincing evidence that there exists at least one type of prompt that elicits the observed behavior, and this prompt was identical to the ones given to humans. However, we conducted a follow-up study to further explore whether and to what extent the behaviors we observed were contingent on the exact prompt used. Using variations similar to those described in Chatterjee et al. (2024), we found that all open models exhibited a relatively high degree of robustness to prompt in the joke classification task (see Supplementary Analysis 7 for additional details).

A fourth limitation concerns the possibility of “data leakage” (sometimes called “data contamination”). Data leakage occurs when there is an overlap between the set of data a model is trained on and the set of data it is tested on (Golchin & Surdeanu, 2023). Because we used previously published joke materials, it is possible that GPT-3's training data included the jokes themselves. However, even if GPT-3 was trained on the exact jokes used in the study, it is very unlikely to have been trained on the comprehension probes (or their answers), meaning that its
