In sum, while both humans and LLMs could detect jokes, humans were better at this task overall. GPT-3 specifically exhibited a strong bias to judge materials as nonjokes, and, consequently, frequently failed to recognize the jokes. By contrast, Llama-3-70B and Mixtral-8x-7B showed the opposite pattern of results. Critically, though the presence of a sentence-final word with high surprisal was neither necessary nor sufficient to classify a given statement as a joke, both humans and all the LLMs we tested produced responses that were sensitive to the surprisal of (the critical) sentence-final words.

Regarding the appreciation task, both humans and GPT-3 rated the jokes as funnier than the sentences with the straight endings, and, indeed, GPT-3 found these materials funnier than the humans did. In contrast with the humor detection task, final-word surprisal had a bigger impact on humor appreciation in GPT-3 than in humans. Notably, GPT-3's performance on both the detection and appreciation tasks was correlated with human behavior—irrespective of whether a given statement actually was a joke. In fact, GPT-3 funniness ratings were strongly correlated with average funniness ratings produced by humans, and the model's ratings divergence from the mean was similar in size to that exhibited by individual people in our sample. Funniness ratings from the open-source LLMs—unlike those from GPT-3—were uncorrelated with human responses or with the experimental condition.

## Humor comprehension: Study 2

Study 1 thus suggests that GPT-3 and the three open-source LLMs tested were able to discriminate between jokes and nonfunny control sentences at an above-chance level. Moreover, GPT-3 in particular exhibited remarkably similar behavior to our human participants in the funniness ratings it assigned to the materials. However, humor appreciation consists of much more than the ability to perform the two-alternative forced choice task we administered in our study. Indeed, it goes beyond the ability to assign a numeric humor rating to verbal materials. Particularly in the case of a one-liner, getting a joke implies that the listener has drawn certain key inferences relevant for eliciting the humor response. Consequently, in Study 2, we tested whether GPT-3 exhibited behavior consistent with joke comprehension and compared its performance to that of human participants given the same materials. Specifically, we asked whether humans and LLMs understood the entailments of jokes and nonjoke stimuli. After reading a given statement (e.g., “A committee keeps minutes and takes hours”), participants were asked whether a follow-up statement (e.g., “Committees are very efficient”) was implied by the meaning of the first statement. Materials consisted of the 400 sentences used in Study 1, along with the comprehension probes used in the original study by Coulson and Lovett (2004). Analyses addressed whether humans and LLMs differed in their overall accuracy, and if any gaps in performance were larger for jokes than nonjokes. As for Study 1, all analyses were preregistered unless otherwise specified (https://osf.io/wudn2?mode=&revisionId=&view_only=).

### Human comprehension study

The human behavioral experiment was conducted online. This research adhered to appropriate ethical standards and received approval from the University of California at San Diego's Institutional Review Board, and all participants provided informed consent. Participants were native English speakers recruited from the online platform Prolific. One hundred and sixty participants (93 female, 63 male, and 4 nonbinary; average age 41) completed the experiment and passed four attention checks, so no participants were excluded from the analysis. There were no statistical methods used to determine our sample size; our aim was to collect 20 human judgments per unique sentence in the stimulus set to emulate sample sizes common to psycholinguistic studies of pragmatic phenomena (Degen, 2015; Noveck, 2018). Participants were paid $2 for their participation.

Stimuli were presented using the experiment design platform Gorilla. Participants saw a total of 60 sentences (20 Expected, 20 Jokes, 20 Straight) presented in a pseudo-random order to ensure no sentence type was shown three times in a row, and answered 60 comprehension probes, approximately balanced for yes/no as the correct response. On each trial, participants read a sentence and pressed the up arrow when they were ready to see the comprehension probe (e.g., “Committees are very efficient”). They then clicked “yes” or “no” to indicate whether the
