To determine whether the surprisal differed between our two kinds of experimental sentences (jokes and their straight variants), we excluded surprisal values for the Expected condition and tagged the remainder for whether they were taken from the joke or the straight version of each sentence. Analysis again involved statistical model comparison of two mixed effects models—a “full” model of surprisal from a fixed effect of stimulus type (joke, straight), a random slope of stimulus type, a random intercept for language model, and a random intercept for sentence-final word and a “reduced” model that was identical to the full model, but that lacked the fixed effect of stimulus type. This analysis revealed that the inclusion of stimulus type (joke vs. nonjoke) in the full model significantly improved the fit to the data ($X^2(1) = 22.12$, $p < .001$). Specifically, jokes tended to have higher-surprisal final words than their “straight” counterparts, as reflected in a negative coefficient for “straight” stimuli ($\beta = -3.32$, $SE = 0.44$, $p < .001$). Thus, although the materials were matched for cloze probability across stimulus types, they did vary significantly in their surprisal; this is consistent with other recent work suggesting that language model surprisal captures relevant variance that cloze probability does not (Michaelov et al., 2022). Unless otherwise noted, we used the final-word surprisal values from *text-davinci-002* in statistical analyses throughout the paper.

## Participants

Participants were native English speakers from the University of California, San Diego's student population, who volunteered via the SONA recruitment tool. All participants provided informed consent and received course credit for participating. This research adhered to appropriate ethical standards and received approval from the University of California at San Diego's Institutional Review Board. One hundred sixty-seven participants (37 male, 123 female, 5 nonbinary, 2 preferred not to say; average age 22) completed the experiment. Fourteen failed the attention checks, and were thus excluded from analysis. There were no statistical methods used to determine our sample size; our aim was to collect 40 human judgments per unique Joke, which is similar to published research on humor appreciation (Moran, Rain, Page-Gould, & Mar, 2014).

## Procedure

Stimuli were presented using the experiment design platform Gorilla. Participants saw a total of 120 sentences (40 Jokes, 40 Straights, 40 Expected) presented in a pseudo-random order such that no sentence type was shown three times in a row. The use of four distinct stimulus lists ensured that 160 total Joke stimuli were presented an approximately equal number of times and that no participant saw both the Joke and the Straight variant of the same stimulus. On each trial, participants read the target sentence and then indicated (1) whether or not they thought the sentence was a joke (Yes/No), and (2) how funny the sentence was (Not Funny, Somewhat Funny, Moderately Funny, Funny, Very Funny). On six trials, evenly spaced throughout the experiment, the target sentence was replaced with the sentence, “This sentence is to check if you are paying attention so please indicate that this sentence is [is not] a joke and rate it as very funny [not funny].” These attention checks were inserted to ensure participants were engaged with the task. An example of the detection/appreciation paradigm is shown in Fig. 1.

**Fig. 1**

In the detection and appreciation tasks, participants read a statement and were asked if it was a joke, as well as how funny the statement was.

## LLM procedure

Each of the 400 sentences was presented to text-davinci-002 using the OpenAI Python API. Each item was presented as a separate “trial” to avoid contamination between items. Before the stimulus presentation, text-davinci-002 was provided with instructions identical to those given to humans. As in the human task, GPT-3 was asked (1) whether or not the sentence is a joke and (2) to rate how funny the sentence is. Unlike in the human study,
