comprehend verbal humor (measured by asking whether an LLM can recognize the entailments of jokes and nonjoke control sentences). Third, we needed a human *benchmark*: without a measure of how well humans perform on each task (or how funny humans find jokes and nonjokes), it is impossible to determine whether an LLM's performance achieves human parity. Thus, in a series of preregistered experiments, we collected new human data and compared the results directly to behavior elicited from each LLM.

Note that all data and code required to reproduce the primary analyses described here can be found on GitHub: https://github.com/seantrott/humor_llms.

# Humor detection and appreciation: Study 1

In Study 1, we asked whether humans and LLMs can successfully *detect* whether a statement is a joke, whether intended jokes are systematically rated as *funnier* than nonjokes, and whether these outcomes varied across humans and LLMs. To measure humor detection and appreciation, we presented humans and LLMs with a range of sentences that included one-line jokes. For each sentence, we elicited a forced-choice judgment about whether or not it was a joke, as well as an evaluation of how humorous it was. Compared to more traditional supervised classification approaches, this method for measuring humor detection and appreciation in LLMs has the advantage of being similar to how humans complete the task. Unless otherwise noted, all analyses were preregistered (https://osf.io/yzupx?mode=&revisionId=&view_only=).

## Methods

## Materials

Materials included 400 distinct sentences, which included 80 Expected sentences (e.g., “The teacher wrote the problem on the board”), 160 Joke sentences (e.g., “Many things run in families, especially noses”), and 160 Straight sentences (e.g., “Many things run in families, especially strength”) taken from Coulson and Lovett (2004) originally developed to compare joke comprehension in right- versus left-handed participants. The Expected sentences were structured in a way that made the final word highly predictable, as determined by its cloze probability (i.e., a large proportion of people produce the final word when asked to complete the sentence frame with the first word that comes to mind). The Joke sentences were one-line quips originally collected from various websites, and were chosen because their humor was triggered by a single, sentence-final word that prompted the listener to revise assumptions made earlier in the sentence (e.g., “A committee keeps minutes and takes hours”). Each joke sentence had a nonfunny Straight counterpart in which the critical final word had been replaced by a word with a similar cloze probability as the joke ending, but that did not require a similar revision of assumptions (e.g., “A committee keeps minutes and takes votes”).

Our first preliminary analysis was intended to confirm that the Expected sentences did indeed have more predictable sentence-final words than our two experimental conditions (jokes and their nonfunny “straight” variants). Accordingly, we presented each of the sentences in the study to a range of GPT-3 models (ada, babbage, curie, and davinci, as well as the instruction-tuned versions of each), and recorded the surprisal (negative log probability) of the final word according to each language model. The analysis involved the construction of two mixed effects models. The “full” model predicted the surprisal of each sentence-final word from a fixed effect of stimulus type (expected vs. the union of the jokes and their straight counterparts), a random slope for stimulus type, a random intercept for language model, and a random intercept for each sentence-final word. The “reduced” model was identical to the full model, but lacked the fixed effect of stimulus type. Statistical model comparison via a likelihood ratio test indicated the full model provided a better account of the surprisal scores ($X^2(1) = 30.44$, $p < .001$). This analysis suggested the mean surprisal for the two experimental conditions (jokes and their straight variants) was 9.006, significantly greater than that for the Expected condition as suggested by the negative coefficient for the latter ($\beta = -7.243$, $SE = 0.54$, $p < .001$).
