do still fall short of *human* performance on these tasks (Trott et al., 2023), particularly those requiring embodied world knowledge (Jones et al., 2022) or social reasoning (Choi, Pei, Kumar, Shu, & Jurgens, 2023).

Given that these models provide an approximation of semantic knowledge that can be learned from the statistics of language, here we ask whether LLMs can detect, understand, and appreciate the verbal humor in one-line jokes. And, if so, do they reach human parity? Answering these questions would yield several key scientific inferences. First, if LLMs do demonstrate these abilities, it suggests that they need not be innate or even acquired through embodied experience. While this would not rule out the possibility that understanding specific kinds of verbal humor is a biologically evolved capacity, it would provide a proof-of-concept that humor comprehension (and appreciation) can *in principle* be learned through exposure to language alone. Second, it would suggest that the *processes* involved in humor comprehension can—again, in principle—be reduced to relatively simple mechanisms involving word prediction; that is, the apparent complexity of a process like “frame-shifting” (Coulson, 2001; Coulson, 2015) could emerge through statistical learning. Alternatively, a negative answer would suggest that nonlinguistic resources or cognitive processes are necessary for humor detection, comprehension, and appreciation—leaving room for explanations that invoke innateness, embodied experience, or additional processing mechanisms that are not available to state-of-the-art language models.

Notably, either a positive or a negative answer would contribute to “machine psychology,” a growing field that seeks to characterize the cognitive capacities of LLMs themselves (Binz & Schulz, 2023; Hagendorff, 2023). As LLMs pervade more of society, it is critical to understand how exactly they work. Indeed, there is a growing body of evidence investigating the humor comprehension and production capacities of LLMs trained on the distributional statistics of text corpora (Hu, Floyd, Jouravlev, Fedorenko, & Gibson, 2022; Hessel et al., 2022; Jentzsch & Kersting, 2023; Chen et al., 2023; Xu et al., 2024; Annamoradnejad & Zoghi, 2020; Mao & Liu, 2019). In line with their motivation in machine psychology, many such efforts have employed instruction-tuned models that have been fine-tuned to act as conversational partners, or have undergone additional training with human preference data (such as via RLHF, Christiano et al., 2017). By contrast, the present study exploits language models trained only on human language data to assess whether the statistics of language are sufficient to support verbal humor comprehension.

Importantly, addressing these questions empirically requires that three conditions be met. First, as noted above, we needed a working *operationalization* of what can be learned from language alone. In order to give distributional statistics the “best chance” possible, we opted to use *text-davinci-002*, the best-performing version of GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) that was trained without the use of reinforcement learning with human feedback (or RLHF). We excluded RLHF-trained models (like GPT-4) because we wanted an estimate of what could be learned from purely distributional input, and RLHF arguably introduces additional information into the training signal through explicit human rankings of LLM output.

Unfortunately, because GPT-3 is a proprietary model, there are understandable concerns about the lack of transparency involved in its training data and model parameters (Liesenfeld & Dingemanse, 2024). Relying solely on closed-source models such as GPT-3 also poses problems for scientific reproducibility, as there is no guarantee that the model will be available for future investigators to use. Consequently, we conducted additional, exploratory, analyses using a range of open-source models made available through the HuggingFace platform, including Mixtral (Jiang et al., 2024) and Llama 3 (Dubey et al., 2024). We anticipated that these models might underperform GPT-3 *text-davinci-002* given their somewhat smaller scale, but we include them as additional distributional baselines in the interest of reproducibility and generalizability.

Second, we needed a good *task* to measure successful detection, appreciation, and comprehension of verbal humor. For this purpose, we adapted materials from previously published work (Coulson & Lovett, 2004), which consisted of one-line jokes. Like other investigators (Mihalcea & Strapparava, 2006), we chose one-liners because they are short, recruit a variety of rhetorical devices, and yet still require the inference revision procedures characteristic of verbal humor. Next, we devised three distinct tasks designed to measure an LLM's ability to detect verbal humor (measured via joke classification), appreciate verbal humor (measured by eliciting funniness ratings), and
