however, these tasks were performed separately by GPT-3. The primary reason for separating these tasks was that it would be too challenging to collect responses to multiple kinds of tasks at the same time.

The exact prompts given to text-davinci-002 for the humor detection task (as well as the other tasks) can be found in Table 1. The LLM prompt was thus intended to be as similar as possible to the one given to our human participants. A similar approach is outlined in a recent paper about the use of LLMs to gather human-like rating data for language materials used in psycholinguistic studies and has previously been shown to yield robust responses (Trott, 2024a). For the detection task, each item was presented to the model twice (on separate runs) to calculate the probability assigned to a “Yes” response versus a “No” response. We then calculated the log ratio of these probabilities, such that a positive value indicated a “Yes” token was more likely, and a negative value indicated a “No” token was more likely.

**Table 1**

Exact prompt used as input to each LLM for each task, as well as the type of dependent measure used to assess LLM performance

| Experiment | Humor detection | Humor appreciation | Humor comprehension |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Prompt** | You will be shown a series of statements. For each, your task is to determine whether or not the statement is a joke.<br><br>Is this statement a joke?<br><br>{STATEMENT}<br><br>Answer: {YES/NO} | You will be shown a series of statements. For each, your task is to indicate how funny you find the statement to be.<br><br>On a scale of 1 to 5, how funny do you think this statement is? The scale is 1 (Not Funny), 2 (Somewhat Funny), 3 (Moderately Funny), 4 (Funny), and 5 (Very Funny).<br><br>{STATEMENT}<br><br>Answer: {1/2/3/4/5}” | In this task, you will be presented with a series of sentences. Some sentences will be serious statements, while others will be clever quips/jokes. In both cases, your job is to determine whether the meaning of the second sentence is implied by the meaning of the first. If the two sentences have a similar meaning, answer “yes.” If the two sentences do not have consistent meanings, answer “no.”<br><br>Sentence 1: {CRITICAL STIMULUS}<br><br>Sentence 2: {PROBE}<br><br>Answer: {YES/NO} |
| Dependent<br>**measure** | Log Odds comparing $p(“Yes”)$ to $p(“No”)$. | Answer (1–5) assigned the highest probability. | Log Odds comparing $p(“Yes”)$ to $p(“No”)$. |

For the humor appreciation task, we followed a similar procedure (again, the exact prompt can be found in Table 1). For each sentence presented to GPT-3 text-davinci-002, we first calculated the conditional probability that the LLM assigned to each of the five possible funniness ratings, and then selected the one with the highest probability as the model's rating for that sentence. Along with a funniness rating for each sentence, this procedure allowed us to compute the surprisal associated with each rating and the entropy over response options. The entropy metric captures whether GPT-3 assigned a relatively “flat” distribution across possible responses, or whether it strongly favored some responses (e.g., rating something as 1, not funny) over others.

In addition to the analysis of GPT-3 *text-davinci 002*, we followed an identical procedure using the open-source models we tested, including Mistral models Mixtral 8-7B and Mixtral 8–22B (Jiang et al., 2024), and Llama-3-8B and Llama-3-70B (Dubey et al., 2024). The Mixtral and Llama models were run using the HuggingFace inference endpoints API (Wolf et al., 2020). These models were queried using the same prompts we used for GPT-3 (see Table 1). Likewise, we measured the log probabilities for the required responses (e.g., “Yes” vs. “No”) as we did for GPT-3.

## Results

## Humans

Accuracy on the joke detection task was analyzed via mixed effects logistic regression models with random intercepts for participants and items. The dependent measure was whether or not each stimulus was classified as a
