# Turing Jest: Distributional Semantics and One-Line Jokes

Sean Trott, Drew E. Walker, Samuel M. Taylor, Seana Coulson

Cognitive Science. 2025. DOI: 10.1111/cogs.70066

## Abstract

Humor is an essential aspect of human experience, yet surprisingly, little is known about how we recognize and understand humorous utterances. Most theories of humor emphasize the role of incongruity detection and resolution (e.g., frame-shifting), as well as cognitive capacities like Theory of Mind and pragmatic reasoning. In multiple preregistered experiments, we ask whether and to what extent exposure to purely linguistic input can account for the human ability to recognize one-line jokes and identify their entailments. We find that GPT-3, a large language model (LLM) trained on only language data, exhibits above-chance performance in tasks designed to test its ability to detect, appreciate, and comprehend jokes. In exploratory work, we also find above-chance performance in humor detection and comprehension in several open-source LLMs, such as Llama-3 and Mixtral. Although all LLMs tested fall short of human performance, both humans and LLMs show a tendency to misclassify nonjokes with surprising endings as jokes. Results suggest that LLMs are remarkably adept at some tasks involving one-line jokes, but reveal key limitations of distributional approaches to meaning.

## Introduction

Humor is foundational to human social cognition. A proposed “universal” (Dunbar, 2004), theorists have long noted the ubiquity of humor across societies and the early age at which the impulse to laugh spontaneously develops (McGhee & Pistolesi, 1979). Many have argued it serves a critical psychological function, from tension relief (Freud, 1960; Spencer, 1875) to feeling superiority to others (Martin & Ford, 2018). Indeed, there is ample evidence that humor serves many critical social (Butzer & Kuiper, 2008; Coser, 1960; Janes & Olson, 2000; Lauer, Lauer, & Kerr, 1990; Ziv, 1988; Ziv & Gadish, 1989) and emotional (Strick et al., 2009; Samson & Gross, 2012; Kugler & Kuhbandner, 2015) functions. Yet, despite its fundamental role in our lives, the mechanisms by which we understand even a simple one-line joke are not fully understood. Many theorists agree that a fundamental cognitive component of humor involves the process of revising an initial incorrect interpretation in light of new information (Coulson, 2005; Coulson & Kutas, 2001; Coulson, Urbach, & Kutas, 2006; Koestler, 1964; Lopez & Vaid, 2017; Norrick, 1986; Ritchie, 2005), and the accompanying joy we feel when we solve these cognitive puzzles (Suls, 1972). For illustration, consider the one-liner: “Everyone had so much fun diving from the tree into the swimming pool we decided to put in a little **water**.” In this case, the statement's humor likely comes in part from the unexpectedness of “water” in that context and the revision of our prior representation of the described scene.

In terms of specific mechanisms, researchers have proposed a variety of mutually compatible *cognitive processes* and *resources* responsible for joke comprehension. A number of process-based theories focus on the procedure for revising one's initial, incorrect interpretation of an utterance in light of new information (or contextual knowledge). Broadly, these theories cast humor as involving the resolution of incongruity (Suls, 1972), conflicting schemas (Koestler, 1964; Norrick, 1986), conflicting scripts (Attardo & Raskin, 1991), or, relatedly, as “shifting” between different conceptual frames (Coulson, 2005; Coulson & Kutas, 2001; Coulson et al., 2006), and updating one's situation model (Lopez & Vaid, 2017). Some process-based theories also emphasize the emotional component of humor, that is, as involving both incongruity resolution and a heightened state of arousal (Apter & Desselles, 2012). Other accounts focus on the *resources* or capacities required to understand humor. These include Theory of Mind (Aykan & Nalçacı, 2018; Howe, 2002; Samson, 2012), that is, the ability to reason about the mental states of other
