of whether a statement was actually a joke, final-word surprisal was positively associated with “Yes” responses ($B = 0.02$, $SE = 0.004$, $p < .001$). Further, there was an interaction between these factors: as depicted in Fig. 4a, the effect of final-word surprisal is restricted to nonjokes. A similar pattern of results was also present in the open-source HuggingFace models: “Yes” responses were more likely for sentences with high-surprisal final words, and this effect was much stronger for nonjoke statements. We confirmed this finding statistically by examining the coefficients in a linear mixed effects model predicting Log Odds from the interaction of Is Joke and Surprisal, with random intercepts for LLM type (i.e., corresponding to the three HuggingFace models) and item. Joke interpretations were more likely for joke statements ($B = 0.93$, $SE = 0.07$, $p < .001$) and for statements with higher surprisal ($B = 0.06$, $SE = 0.005$, $p < .001$); there was also a significant, negative interaction between these terms ($B = -.07$, $SE = 0.008$, $p < .001$), that is, the effect of final-word surprisal was particularly pronounced for nonjokes—as with GPT-3.

As described in the Methods section, we also asked GPT-3 to rate the funniness of each statement on a scale from 1 (not funny) to 5 (very funny); we then calculated the probability assigned to each possible response, and selected the highest-probability token. Across all items, the mean funniness rating was 2.4. We then built a linear model predicting GPT-3's funniness ratings with both Is Joke and Surprisal (i.e., of the final word in the stimulus) as factors. Funniness ratings were higher for jokes ($B = 0.5$, $SE = 0.09$, $p < .001$) than nonjokes, and also independently increased as a function of final-word surprisal ($B = 0.06$, $SE = 0.01$, $p < .001$). In contrast, the open-source LLMs tested did not systematically assign different funniness ratings for jokes versus nonjokes (all $p > .1$).

In sum, each LLM tested was more likely to classify jokes as jokes (see Fig. 3), but only GPT-3 rated jokes as funnier than nonjokes (see Fig. 4b). For both outcomes, there was an independent effect of final-word surprisal: statements with more surprising final words were more likely to be classified as jokes and also received higher funniness ratings (irrespective of whether they were a joke).

**Fig. 3**

Comparison of human and LLM performance on the joke detection task. Humans were more accurate overall, and were best at discriminating jokes from nonjokes.

**Fig. 4**

The effect of surprisal (high vs. low) on joke classification and joke appreciation across humans and GPT-3. In each case, the effect of surprisal was limited to nonjokes. (a) For *joke detection*, humans were more likely to classify *nonjokes* with surprising endings as jokes; this effect was less strong for LLMs. (b) For *joke appreciation*, both humans and GPT-3 produced higher funniness ratings for *nonjokes* with surprising endings.

For example, both “Now that the Hollywood couple has ironed out the divorce settlement, they can finally go ahead with their nuptials,” (with a final word surprisal of 4.87) and “A good way to blow your mind is to smoke gunpowder,” (with a final word surprisal of 14.67) were rated “Not funny” by GPT-3. Likewise, both “Frequent naps prevent old age, especially when taken while driving,” (with a final word surprisal of 0.27) and “The book that tells you where you can go on vacation is called a checkbook,” (with a final word surprisal of 18.77) were rated “Moderately funny” by GPT-3. On the other hand, the nonjokes, “She read so much about the bad effects of cigarettes, she decided to give up the habit,” (with a final word surprisal of 0.29) and “Every time I wear my spring coat in the rain, it damages the fabric,” (with a final word surprisal of 1.72) were rated “Not funny” by GPT-3, whereas the nonjokes “Frequent naps prevent old age, especially when taken while relaxed,” (with a final word surprisal of 19.65) and “One good turn gets most of the profit,” (with a final word surprisal of 16.22) were rated “Moderately funny” by GPT-3. That is, surprisal had a greater impact on funniness ratings for nonjokes than jokes.

## Comparison of humans and LLMs
