versational AI applications mostly focus on single-user text-based dialogue, researchers are interested in the next frontier of Multi-Party Chat (MPC) AI (Traum, 2003; Kirchhoff and Ostendorf, 2003; Poria et al., 2018; Zhu et al., 2022; Wei et al., 2023) that can intelligently respond not only to dialogue, but also to the physical and social context of the conversation. Issues in multi-party dialogue include speaker and addressee identification, turn and conversation thread management or establishing a common ground among multiple participants (Traum, 2003). MPC is already prominent in online social gaming research and development where non-player characters (NPCs) react to multiple online players (Urbanek et al., 2019) but it is also relevant for speculative AI applications to human social, cultural, and political life.

Various technical, psychological and social factors affect not only the feasibility of deploying robots in social contexts, but also their “acceptability by humans as partners in the interaction (Youssef et al., 2022).” With some exceptions, including staging robots in theatre performances (Chikarai­shi et al., 2017; Nishiguchi et al., 2017), Human Robot Interaction (HRI) studies also generally take place in laboratory settings. Our case study was designed to introduce an application of MPC AI in a theatre space, highlighting real-world challenges of both social robotics and of conversational AI, and capturing human reactions to the system in action. Using *the theatre as a laboratory to study how actors and audiences respond to the presence of a real-time performing AI*, our work answers “a call for a more integrative approach when investigating HRIs” that specifically takes into account “the cultural context of the experiment” (Lim, Rooksby, and Cross, 2021), and puts participants in direct contact with the physically present robots.

Until recently, public perception of robots has been shaped by media more than by direct experiences with AI (Haring et al., 2014), fostering both over- and underestimation of AI’s ability and utility by the public. Our findings demonstrate how *both interacting with, and observing an AI being deployed in a social context, influences the perception of AI capability* as well as the motivation for interacting with it, and the ability to relate to it. Our case study is also an examination of participatory and user-centered design demonstrating how *user-in-the-loop design compliments human-in-the-loop AI research*. We find that such participatory models of inquiry can tackle the intertwined technical and psychological challenges around the subjects of creativity, human computing, and robotics interaction.

The following sections outline our method for deploying and staging MPC LLMs around the unique limitations and opportunities of live theatre, our development of improvisational games designed to challenge and explore the limits of state of the art conversational agents, and the results of our audience and performer surveys that highlight how our design choices impacted perceptions of AI.

## Staging AI in Theatre Festival Performances

Multi-party dialogue live on stage with a chatbot presented numerous challenges for the developers, researchers, and artists involved. While in principle modern LLMs can track multiple conversational agents, they need a speech recognition system with multiple microphones to identify speakers, making it impractical for “Fringe” theatre productions with short theatre get-in and get-out times. Second, capturing speech does not account for the physical aspects of communication on stage, from gestures to tone of voice; missing the full context of the conversation. Third, design decisions must be made about the timing of that chatbot’s responses.

To address these challenges, we developed a system that combines continuous speech recognition (see Appendix for implementation details) and a *human-in-the-loop curation system* to allows an *Operator* to type contextual metadata for the LLMs, supplementing context from the live speech[^6] captured on stage. We also engineered prompts to influence the LLMs’ style of response (see Fig. 2). A second performer (*Curator*) selected in real time the best response from a “stream of consciousness”-like set of responses continuously generated by the LLMs (see Fig. 3). Figure 5 displays the AI’s contributions in a short improv scene dialogue, with only a small subset selected by the curator and sent via text-to-speech and earpiece to the *Cyborg* performer.

Co-creative storytelling abilities of AI have been initially explored using a custom LLM based on recurrent neural networks (Mathewson and Mirowski, 2017b; Mirowski and Mathewson, 2019) trained on movie and television dialogue (Lison and Tiedemann, 2016). Their early model struggled with longer narrative threads and handling multiple speakers. OpenAI’s release of GPT-2 (Radford et al., 2019) with a Transformer architecture in 2019, introduced a much more powerful LLM that allowed for performance of longer narrative scenes (Mirowski et al., 2020; Branch, Mirowski, and Mathewson, 2021). Nevertheless, multi-party dialogue performance remained underwhelming. In an improvement over their work, and experimenting with GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) and subsequent models (OpenAI, 2023; Anil et al., 2023; Touvron et al., 2023), we found that given sufficient prompting and context, GPT-3 and later models appeared capable of producing nuanced, varied responses that addressed more than one participant in the scene. This led us to explore new games and formats for improvisational theatre that involved more than one scene partner.

For the 2023 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, we developed a system that prompted multiple LLMs simultaneously while incorporating live stage dialogue. We adopted a participatory iterative design approach, with actors trying the system and providing regular feedback about improvements to support role-playing with AI. Subsequently, through several cycles of experimentation and feedback, we developed a series of improv games that appeared to allow improvisers to perform comfortably while also allowing us to continue testing the capacity of LLMs to handle a variety of complex multi-party scenes. The success and consistency of our system, and the positive performer feedback gave us confidence to present the show as part of the Fringe Festival for 26 consecutive performances to new audiences each night.

Over the course of the festival, we performed the show

[^6]: Scene dialogue was recorded using a microphone and speech recognition system, resulting in numerous transcription errors.
