Poria, S.; Hazarika, D.; Majumder, N.; Naik, G.; Cambria, E.; and Mihalcea, R. 2018. Meld: A multimodal multi-party dataset for emotion recognition in conversations. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.02508*.

Radford, A.; Wu, J.; Child, R.; Luan, D.; Amodei, D.; Sutskever, I.; et al. 2019. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. *OpenAI blog* 1(8):9.

Radford, A.; Kim, J. W.; Xu, T.; Brockman, G.; McLeavey, C.; and Sutskever, I. 2023. Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak supervision. In *International Conference on Machine Learning*, 28492–28518. PMLR.

Toplyn, J. 2022. Witscript 2: A system for generating improvised jokes without wordplay. In *Intl Conf Computational Creativity*.

Touvron, H.; Martin, L.; Stone, K.; Albert, P.; Almahairi, A.; Babaei, Y.; Bashlykov, N.; Batra, S.; Bhargava, P.; Bhosale, S.; et al. 2023. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288*.

Traum, D. 2003. Issues in multiparty dialogues. In *Workshop on Agent Communication Languages*, 201–211. Springer.

Urbanek, J.; Fan, A.; Karamcheti, S.; Jain, S.; Humeau, S.; Dinan, E.; Rocktäschel, T.; Kiela, D.; Szlam, A.; and Weston, J. 2019. Learning to speak and act in a fantasy text adventure game. In *Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, 673–683.

Vilk, J., and Fitter, N. T. 2020. Comedians in cafes getting data: evaluating timing and adaptivity in real-world robot comedy performance. In *Intl Conf Human-Robot Interaction*, 223–231.

Wei, J.; Shuster, K.; Szlam, A.; Weston, J.; Urbanek, J.; and Komeili, M. 2023. Multi-party chat: Conversational agents in group settings with humans and models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13835*.

Weidinger, L.; Mellor, J.; Rauh, M.; Griffin, C.; Uesato, J.; Huang, P.-S.; Cheng, M.; Glaese, M.; Balle, B.; Kasirzadeh, A.; et al. 2021. Ethical and social risks of harm from language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.04359*.

Winters, T., and Mathewson, K. W. 2019. Automatically generating engaging presentation slide decks. In *Intl Conf Computational Intelligence in Music, Sound, Art and Design*, 127–141.

Youssef, K.; Said, S.; Alkork, S.; and Beyrouthy, T. 2022. A survey on recent advances in social robotics. *Robotics* 11(4):75.

Zhang, R.; Duan, W.; Flathmann, C.; Mcneese, N.; Freeman, G.; and Williams, A. 2023. Investigating ai teammate communication strategies and their impact in human-ai teams for effective teamwork. *dl.acm.org* 7:1–31.

Zhu, L. Y.; Zhang, Z.; Wang, J.; Wang, H.; Wu, H.; and Yang, Z. 2022. Multi-party empathetic dialogue generation: A new task for dialog systems. In *Association for Computational Linguistics*, 298–307.

## Acknowledgments

We thank the cast members of Improbotics who contributed their talents and ideas in the run-up to and during the 2023 Edinburgh Festival Fringe performances, namely Alex Newson, Ben Lovell, Em Stroud, Fiona Howat, Holly Mallett, Jenny Elfving, Jillian Ellis, Jodie Irvine, Julie Flower, Marouen Mraihi, Mike Prior, Paul Little, Roel Fox, Sarah Davies, Thomas Jones, Tommy Rydling, as well as guest improvisers Callum Jarvie, Caroline Matison, Charles Dundas, Gregor Davidson, Ken Gordon, Ryan Murphy and Steven Millar. We are grateful to audiences for critical vocal feedback, and to Dr. Lidia Alvarez for her assistance with the survey analysis.

## Appendix

### Technical Implementation Details

We implemented the speech recognition system for the shows using a USB microphone (Blue Yeti[^13]) placed on a microphone stand at the front of the stage, and OpenAI’s Whisper speech recognition software running continuously during the show (we used the 4-bit quantized `whisper-small.en` model and a modified C++ implementation of Whisper[^14] running with a typical 0.3s latency on the stage laptop, a MacBook Pro M2 with 96GB memory) that would send each line of recognised speech to the language model server.

The language model server processed each incoming line of speech-recognised text, as well as each line of context manually typed by an operator, to assemble the context prompt for the LLMs. A typical example of assembled prompt would consist of (1) a system prompt, followed by (2) lines of dialogue from speech recognition, and (3) an instruction.

For example, for “Couples’ Therapy”, the system prompt (1) was: *You are an improv actor doing role-play with me. You stay in character and only say the lines that your character would say. You are performing for an adult audience and your goal is to entertain them with your irreverent wit. Below is the setup for an improvised scene. You work as a couple therapist and counselor. A distraught couple enters your office. You desperately try to save their relationship, but constantly give comically bad advice for humorous effect.* The prompt was then concatenated with (2) lines of dialogue coming from speech recognition, prefixed with the name of the human speaker (entered manually by the operator), and lines of dialogue generated by the LLM, e.g.: *Paul: Doctor, we need help, my partner Alex wears Birkenstocks and picks his toenails.* Finally, the prompt was concatenated with an instruction (3) such as: *You play the role of Alex. Write several possible responses for Alex..* Additional metadata of context were directly added to the dialogue section (2) of the prompt, e.g..: *Alex starts speaking in a literary style and makes many funny puns..*

The LLM server used the Google Palm 2 API and the OpenAI ChatGPT-3.5 and ChatGPT-4 API to access the re-

[^13]: https://www.logitech.com  
[^14]: https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp
