- *Like doing long form with a 5 year old*
- *It helped shape the story or take it into directions I wasn’t expecting! But that is also due to the human selecting the lines*
- *I think sometimes people would have to justify what A.L.Ex had said in the scene depending on how the human delivered the lines. Which can sometimes create great moments or slight awkwardness*
- *I had to have more of a mind on plot and keeping the scenes grounded in the reality we had created.*
- *I had to do more on plot, relationship and justifying*
- *Having puns for too long meant i had to change modes, for the ted talk it enabled true fun and in the moment thinking.*
- *Helps me to listen more*
- *It made it harder to be in the moment this show. This maybe because we were a small cast so when we weren’t improvising we had to select the lines from the ipad. This meant we were never able to watch from the sidelines to think about the scene.*

**Please describe the biggest challenges for you with A.L.Ex as a scene partner.**

- *Too many lines generated, not allowing scene to build. Careful selection needed by the person holding the tablet.*
- *Adapting my performance when A.L.Ex is just the robot.*
- *Just incorporating his responses*
- *Not regretting Alex’s lines*
- *Adapting to the sometimes snarky ”character or tone” taken by A.L.ex.*
- *When the tech fails and Alex takes longer to respond*
- *The waiting for lines as it generates new lines for the scene*
- *If it’s early on in a scene it is that initial moment of feeling like having to fill air time to get A.L.Ex on track and into the scene*
- *There was much more justifying of A.L.Ex’s lines in this show due to the increased non-sequiters or odd replies, statements*
- *Lack of complete collaboration and ‘yes, and’*
- *The time delay is still a challenge as i dont think i have slowed myself down enough to make it seemless.*
- *Keeping up with Alex*

**Please describe what you enjoyed most about having A.L.Ex as a scene partner.**

- *The word play and puns. The fact it could out rap me. Plus even the unrelated, most out of context lines, could be used in a humorous way*
- *The flow of the scene is increasingly easier maintain.*
- *The surprises!*
- *Mixing it up baby!*
- *The creation of a moment unsuspected.*
- *The change in energy in the scene*
- *The assured humour it can bring that get the audience*
- *The moments of the absurd lines that worked within context but provided great humour*
- *The justifying of the lines meant as performers we had to be increasingly on the same page with each other to justify what A.L.Ex said in context of the scene / show.*
- *Watching the actor playing ALEx try to incorporate the lines into a meaningful and congruent charactee*
- *Adds whole other dimension to plsy*
- *The change in energy and suggestions*
- *There were some moments that A.L.Ex produced that were nice.*

**Please describe what it was like to perform short form games with A.L.Ex**

- *Sharp punchy lines were available most of the time. Not always.*
- *I’m beginning to feel a marked difference in performing with A.L.Ex as a robot and performing with A.L.Ex embodied as a cyborg in these scenes. The ”dating” A.L.Ex requires different performance elements. Can’t quite specify what these are at the moment.*
- *Hilarious and challenging*
- *Enjoyable and silly*
- *In one scene (couples therapy) it really felt as an improviser I, A.L.ex via the human cyborg, and the audience were all invested and on the same page. And there was an anticipation about what was to come next.*
- *Like talking to a 5 year old*
- *Fun! The speed dating game works quite well with Alex*
- *It was fun as it allowed for a fresh new way to do the games, like in speed dating it makes for great contrast against strong characters.*
- *I’m taking that performing with A.L.Ex includes controlling / curating the lines. I was curating the lines in the short form dating scenes. I found I was stepping on the other performers lines by pressing the line too quickly so A.L.Ex cut them off. This was a result I believe from being partly used to feeding lines to the human cyborg where this teqnique is fine because only the person as the cyborg hears it. But also partly anxiety about leaving a too big a gap between performer speaking and A.L.Ex replying.*
- *Fun and lots of laughs*
- *Fun, challenging and random at points*
- *Exciting*
