*limiting what he could do.”* Interestingly, while the AI’s responses were far from what we expect from a human improviser, they were not perceived as completely unrelated to the context of the scenes: more than half reported that the AI appeared “*responsive to what was happening on stage*”, with nearly half reporting responses appeared “*unique*” and to have their own “*style*”.

By its nature, improvised theatre presents a difficult problem for conversational AI (Martin and others, 2016): the roles for characters are emergent and based on shared mutual understanding of complex social structures and norms. Theatre scenes have both tacit and explicit rules of engagement. Subsequently, attempting to build a system that can shift between any given emergent situation is still beyond the capacity of publicly available text-only chatbots. One of the objectives of the our show was to contribute to the public understanding of the aforementioned problem. Looking at the actual text generated by the LLMs, despite speech recognition errors, responses demonstrated reasonable understanding of the context (see Fig: 5). While having a human-in-the-loop to provide contextual data for the prompting results in better possible responses, the human curators of the responses did not consistently select the most appropriate ones: this is understandable as the human curator was tasked with both listening to what is being performed on stage as well as reading from a constant stream of available lines, appearing with a delay. Furthermore, the Cyborg hearing the line would often need to delay to speak the line as they waited for an appropriate opportunity in the scene. Subsequently, turn-taking remains a difficult challenge for performing with AI.

## Curiosity for Robots and AI

The results of Q3 shows that “curiosity for robots/AI” was the leading driver of audiences, significantly overtaking “love for improv comedy” in general, or “love for robots” in general, or simply “being a fan of the show or a cast member”. This result supports the idea that we are in a transitional phase of accepting AI into mainstream cultural experience. This reason for going to the show correlates with answers to Q4, namely the vast majority of audiences being more “curious about robots” than any other feeling including “skepticism”, “excitement”, “fear”, “indifference”, or “love” for them. The show had positive audience reviews[^10] and mixed press reviews, with several prominent publications outright criticising it for not being entertaining like a typical comedy show[^11], while others outright praising it for its high level of entertainment and originality[^12]. The self-perception by the creative team of the show was that we needed to juggle advocacy for the use of AI as a tool for creativity, public communication about risks and potentials of AI, high audience expectations about the capabilities of AI, and the need to make a comedic and entertaining show. Of note is that the show was a commercial success in an environment where commercial success was not guaranteed: the audience attendance stayed consistent throughout the run, averaging 63% seat capacity in a 106-seat venue. This curiosity is likely a result of the saturation of news about advances in AI, and their increased use by the general public.

## Multi-Party Dialogue With Human-Curated AI

As discussed in the previous section, the majority of audiences reported feeling “more excited about using AI as a creative partner”, while reporting being “less optimistic about AI as a creative storyteller”. We interpret this as a promising avenue for (human-centered) human-machine collaboration.

Our use of human-in-the-loop curation and prompt engineering likely contributed to this result. By using a human curator, we work outside of the traditional thinking around programming AI for social interaction: we take a system designed for two-party dialogue and try to make it work for multi-party dialogue through use of a curator. We believe our work is more related to human augmentation with AI than the development of autonomous AI.

## Making Limited Robots Subjects of Performance

While audiences reported high levels of entertainment and satisfaction about the overall experience, they did not ex-

[^10]: e.g, “*thoroughly enjoyable, funny but at the same time there were some thought provoking moments*”, “*I think the actors did a great job at working with the AI. I especially liked the cyborg concept of an AI driving the word choices of a character*”, “*Original improv show which educates and involves the audience. Entertaining and great for families with older kids*”, “*Great concept for a show to provide the improv actors with good source material... and these actors were very good at developing chosen themes to conclusion*”, “*Anything can happen. Very unusual but it really works*” `tickets.edfringe.com/whats-on/artificial-intelligence-improvisation`

[^11]: “*[...] the most interesting parts of the show come when the AI (represented on stage by either a tiny robot or a cast member wearing an earpiece) is allowed to strut its stuff. Though most of what it comes out with is an odd combination of intensely logical and amusingly incoherent, it’s still fascinating to watch a computer, on a basic level, make jokes and quips in response to a number of quirky scenarios. Unfortunately, those moments make up nowhere near enough of the show, which can’t seem to decide whether its purpose is to inform or to entertain. [...] By the end, it’s troubling to admit that almost all of the laughs in the show came not from the human cast but from the AI robot facing them. And though a final live recreation of the Turing test provides an intriguing end to the show, ironically, a more in-depth explanation of the science behind AI would have been both more entertaining and more interesting.*” `whynow.co.uk/read/artificial-intelligence-improvisation-review-comedy-has-nothing-to-fear-from-ai`

[^12]: “*A fantastic look at how AI can be used in an artistic space while also showing us that it isn’t quite as advanced as we all feared, as it struggles with even the most mundane task, like generating dialogue for an investment banker who wishes to become an astronaut, you know, everyday things like that. It may be able to fool university examiners, but sadly it’s not quite ready to fully embody a midlife crisis. Thoroughly enjoyed the show, it was interesting to see just how well the AI prompts were able to keep up with each of the ongoing scenes, or not as was sometimes the case, and how the rest of the cast had to react to this. Certainly different, definitely entertaining.*” `https://theatreandtonic.co.uk/blog/artificial-intelligence-improvisation-review`
