desires related to the Cyborg. With these games we hoped to provide both audiences and actors with a wide range of types of social encounters with the Cyborg, which allowed for its successes and failures in a given scene to be evenly considered across a gamut of scenes where it would sometimes be the focus of attention, or sometimes just a supporting role.

**Hero’s Journey** We developed “Hero’s Journey” (Campbell, 2008) as the penultimate challenge to explore the range of long-term memory and ability to distinguish itself amongst a group of improvisers constantly changing roles. With this game, the Cyborg is given an undesirable job (point of departure), and an aspirational job (destination); working with an ensemble of 4-5 human performers, the Cyborg must overcome obstacles on their journey to the career of their dreams. This is the most technically challenging role for the Cyborg since it encounters repeating scene partners, each presenting as obstacles or allies in achieving a change in job and status. Like our other games, the format does not depend exclusively on the Cyborg driving the scenes, but allows it to be a relatively passive protagonist encountering a slew of characters guiding it to the destination.

**Improvised TED Talk and Movie Pitch** Our show used two additional game formats, namely “Improvised TED Talk” (relying on AI-generated PowerPoint slides, unbeknownst to the actor) (Winters and Mathewson, 2019) and “Movie Pitch” (where image generators were used to output, in real time, images illustrating or disrupting an improvised film pitch). These games leveraged AI for idea generation.

## Designing AI Curation Interfaces

With this show format we hoped to be able to simultaneously test the abilities of new LLMs, and to hedge our bets on being able to present an entertaining show. While we felt confident in the development of improv games, appropriately prompting LLMs on stage raised another challenge. Speech-to-text does not provide the LLMs with sufficient relevant context, and without specific prompt engineering, the LLMs tend toward “honest, helpful and harmless” information giving (Askell et al., 2021; Bai et al., 2022) rather than chit-chat helpful for role-playing (Hendry et al., 2023). Previous studies of MPC NLPs focused their studies on specific scenarios with predetermined roles (Zhang et al., 2023).

In improvised theatre (Johnstone, 2014), every scene is made up on the spot, meaning that predefined roles cannot be assigned. We thus developed a system that allows an operator to type in metadata to a given scene to “steer” the AI agent towards a personality or agenda within the scene. The speed at which scenes take place however, makes such live-inputting a daunting tasks. Moreover, we could not give these instructions via voice input, since voice was already used for scene dialogue.

Eventually, we built buttons into the user interface to allow the operator to direct the AI agent to provide more provocative and emotionally charged responses. After some trial and error in rehearsal we found that prompting the LLM to respond in the role of a “sarcastic” and “pithy” friend in addition to the scene specific prompts injected a bit of playful conflict that could humanise the responses if used on occasion. The LLMs were also remarkably adept at making puns, which was useful for the scenes *when used in moderation*. Furthermore, we tested giving more scene-specific prompts to help the LLM perform with stylistically different responses. For example, instructions such as “try to repair your relationship by pointing out your partner’s flaws to the therapist”, resulted in better scene-specific “playful conflict” that could be resolved over time. Subsequently, we created buttons in our UI for the LLMs to be “more snarky” or “more punny”, and inject relationship contexts with buttons for “reminiscing with loved ones”, or “getting therapy.” Such prompts would be interjected along with the live real-time audio captured from an onstage microphone and processed with a speech-to-text model (see Appendix) (Radford et al., 2023), which became a stream of prompts to LLMs.

Finally a curator was given a tablet to select from the stream of lines constantly generated by the LLMs (see Fig. 1 for the illustration of the setup). The person selecting the lines would not know which LLM had served that response, allowing us to later analyse if there were any preferences for specific models.

## Audience and Actor Surveys After Performances

To capture the impact of our iterative design choices (such as updates to the line curation UI) as well as to understand how actors and audiences experienced the show, we surveyed both groups after each performance, with approval from the ethics governing board at the University of Kent[^8]. Survey answers from both audiences and actors were collected anonymously via an online Qualtrics questionnaire; the links were shared via email (actors) or QR code shown before and after the show[^9] (audiences). To proceed with the online survey, participants needed to read a short statement about the study and to consent to the use of their data.

**Survey Design** Our performances took place in the context of a large theatre festival with dozens of different shows taking place each hour, and a 30-minute turn-around period between shows. Accordingly, we anticipated difficulty collecting a high volume of responses per show for both audiences as well as actors who needed to exit quickly. We chose to exclude collecting demographics data to shorten the surveys, and due to the likely high margin for error for collecting the actual demographics of the audience. Survey questions were exclusively focused around the primary questions of the experience of watching an AI perform on stage.

**Data** Audience surveys accumulated 150 unique individual responses, and actors surveys 21 individual responses over the course of 26 shows. On average, 67 audience members attended each show (5.8 survey responses per show). The quick turn-around of the show (5 minutes for audience

[^8]: kent.ac.uk/research-innovation-services/research-ethics-and-governance

[^9]: The survey invitation was: “Help us do real science! After the show, answer a 5-minute research survey on human-computer interaction. Research project run by Dr. Boyd Branch and Dr. Piotr Mirowski. Ethics approval: University of Kent.” Consent and privacy notice are detailed in the Appendix.
