mote LLMs as well as 4-bit quantized Llama 2 13B running locally on the laptop. We developed a centralised server architecture that allowed multiple computers and tablets to access the history of speech recognition results, operator-input context metadata, LLM-generated lines and lines selected by the curator. During the show, a version of the UI was projected on screen.

**Consent and Privacy Notice in Surveys**

Audience surveys started with: *“Thank you so much for attending the Improbottics show, and for taking the time to leave feedback about your experience. This survey is completely anonymous and should take about 5 minutes. Please click to ’consent’ if you are happy to proceed.”* and concluded with *“The data you provided will be used for the purposes of research by Improbottics and University of Kent. This survey is anonymous, please be assured that your responses will be kept completely confidential. If you would like to contact the principal investigators in the study to discuss this research, please e-mail Dr. Boyd Branch at bmb22 [AT] kent.ac.uk, or Dr. Piotr Mirowski at piotr.mirowski [AT] computer.org.”*

*“For information about how we protect your and use your data please follow this link: research.kent.ac.uk/ris-research-policy-support/wp-content/uploads/sites/2326/2021/06/GDPR-Privacy-Notice-Research.pdf”*

**Audience Questionnaire**

- Q1. (Consent and privacy notice).
- Q2. Which show did you attend?  
  (List of dates)
- Q3. What drew you to the show? (single choice)  
  I love improv comedy. / I love robots. / I’m curious about robots/AI. / I’m a fan of one or more of the human improvisers. / Something else$^*$.
- Q4. Before watching the show what were your feelings about robots/AI? (single choice)  
  Love them. / Afraid of them. / Curious about them. / Skeptical about them. / Indifferent about them. / Ambivalent about them. / Angry about them. / Excited about them. / Something else$^*$.
- Q5. During the show I found myself mostly: (single choice)  
  Laughing at robots. / Laughing at the human improvisers. / Laughing with robots. / Laughing with the human improvisers. / Laughing about robots. / Laughing in spite of robots. / Watching for what could go wrong with robots. / Watching improvisers work around the limitations of robots. / Watching robots work around the limitations of humans. / Something else$^*$.
- Q6. What I liked most about the show was: (single choice)  
  Watching the robot come up with entertaining and funny ideas. / Watching the improvisers try to make sense of the strange and funny ideas generated by the robot. / Watching the robot and humans create funny and entertaining stories together. / Something else$^*$.
- Q7. I felt like A.L.Ex, the robot/AI, : (single choice)  
  Performed better than I expected. / Performed as well as I expected. / Performed worse than I expected.
- Q8. I mostly found the show:  
  Entertaining / Educational / Original / Provocative / Confusing / Something else$^*$.
- Q9. After watching the show: (single choice)  
  I am more optimistic about robots as creative storytellers. / I am less optimistic about robots as creative storytellers. / I am more excited about using AI tools for creativity. / I am less interested in using AI tools for creativity. / Something else.
- Q10. Watching the show I found myself: (single choice)  
  Empathising and caring about A.L.Ex. / Neutral or indifferent to A.L.Ex. / Rooting for A.L.Ex to succeed. / Rooting for A.L.Ex to fail. / Rooting for the humans to outperform A.L.Ex. / Rooting for A.L.Ex to outperform the humans. / Forgetting A.L.Ex was a robot. / Something else$^*$.
- Q12. As a performer, A.L.Ex (The robot/AI) appeared: (scores between 0 and 100)  
  machine like / human like / artificial / lifelike / to communicate naturally / to communicate unnaturally / to have a mind of its own / not to have a mind of its own.
- Q13. A.L.Ex’s responses as an independent intelligence appeared: (scores between 0 and 100)  
  fake/not really generated in response to what was happening on stage. / real/ actually responsive to what was happening on stage. / common/generic / unique / a sham/ not really AI / run of the mill/ ordinary / original/ distinct / to have their own style.
- Q14. A.L.Ex’s responses as an actor/improviser appeared: (scores between 0 and 10)  
  similar to a human actor’s responses. reciprocal/ motivated toward mutual benefit with other actors. supportive of the scenes ignorant of the scenes.
- Q15-Q19. Please elaborate (in case “Something else” was chosen on questions Q3, Q4, Q5, Q8 and Q10).
- Q20. Is there anything you would like to share with us about your experience watching the show?

**Actor Questionnaire**

- Q1. (Consent and privacy notice).
- Q2. While improvising with A.L.Ex  
  A.L.Ex provided meaningful contributions to the scenes. / A.L.Ex collaborated with me to tell interesting stories. / A.L.Ex allowed me to focus more on spontaneously reacting to the moment then trying to keep track of a plot. / A.L.Ex mainly introduced absurd or random information that I needed to creatively integrate back into the story. / A.L.Ex as an actor advanced the story we were telling. / A.L.Ex as an actor created obstacles for advancing the story forward. / A.L.Ex’s statements during the heroes journey made sense to me. / A.L.Ex’s statements generally surprised me in a way that let me be more creative. / A.L.Ex’s statements surprised me in a way that made it
