[Figure: Dialogue transcript from an improvised scene on the left with speakers HOST, PAUL, CYBORG, and JULIE, and a right panel labeled “Stream of AI-generated lines (bold is selected):”. Colored arrows and red dashed arrows connect dialogue sentences to generated AI lines.]

**Figure 5:** Dialogue from an improvised scene between Paul, Julie (his mother) and the Cyborg (Paul’s date) where the Cyborg meet’s Paul’s parents, with suggestion: *ketchup soup*. In this dialogue extract (recorded using speech recognition), the Cyborg says 3 lines, marked with solid blue, violet and pink arrows: “It’s warming, comforting, and perfect for a cozy night in”, “Unique flavors and dishes always make for a memorable meal” and “I can already tell where Paul gets his hospitality from”. All LLM-generated lines are shown on the right side of the figure as a sequence of lines we call the *AI Stream*. Red dashed arrows show which dialogue sentence triggered which LLM-generated line.

Some argued that delight and humour derive from the absurdity of responses by the AI, and that better language models would lessen the humour on stage. Others argued that a different kind of interest and delight will emerge with increasingly intelligent robots that no longer are the object of the joke. The lively discussion of the topic inspired us to develop new formats and games that would allow the AI to function within scenes, rather than as the object of the scenes for actors. The following sections details the iterative development of the game format, and how games were developed to support co-creativity with AI scene partners more than presenting just another “Turing”-style test for the audience.

## Designing for the Theatre Audience

Besides testing the ability of our modern LLM models to handle MPC, we also needed to take into account the entertaining aim for the show: audiences were not buying tickets to provide feedback about the ability of LLMs to handle MPC dialogue. This meant we needed to find a show format where a successful performance would not be tied solely to the AI performance, but to the ensemble cast performance that included the AI as an equal cast member.

We therefore designed new games we hoped would allow us to assess the collaborative skill of AI and its added value to a live theatre experience. In the following, we slightly anthropomorphize the AI and we distinguish between the *Robot* when the AI controls a robot, and *Cyborg* when the AI provides lines for a human actor. In the following games, the main feedback mechanism and success criterion corresponded to the perceived amount of laughter, as used in similar studies with robot comedians (Vilk and Fitter, 2020).

**Speed Dating** To start the show and introduce the audience to the skills of the AI, we developed an opening game of “Speed Dating”, where the Robot was tasked with going on multiple dates with different characters in an attempt to find a mate. A human improviser in the same situation is capable of quickly adapting their behavior to the offers made by the various dates, in turn revealing various aspects of their own character over time, which eventually broadcast the unique likes and dislikes that one of the ensemble of dating characters will match with. Putting the Robot in the main role would allow us test how well variations of likes and dislikes might emerge from interacting with multiple contrasting personalities. We observed that the AI could not convincingly provide consistent dating criteria. Instead, the success of the game for the audience simply depended on how the Robot responded to the outlandish offers being made by the human improvisers.

**Wedding Speech** While “Speed Dating” looked at how well the AI could rapidly respond to multiple speakers, one line at a time, “Wedding Speech” was designed to explore the LLMs’ ability to incorporate multiple inputs from both audience members and cast members into a longer narrative. For this game the Cyborg is required to give an impromptu speech at the wedding of a former lover, speech prompted both from the dialogue of a preceding scene, as well as suggestions from the audience about secrets that may get revealed. The game therefore tested how well the AI would be able to take disparate threads of a potential story and weave them together into a coherent as well as entertaining speech that would “surprise” the audience.

**Couples’ Therapy and Meet the Parents** Two other games involving the Cyborg going to “couples’ therapy” and “meet the parents” of a partner for the first time, provided scenes where the Cyborg would need to converse with two different people who had different needs, expectations, and
