[Figure: Actors survey results shown as Likert-scale response lists for Q2_1–Q2_8, with questions about AI contributions, collaboration, spontaneity, absurd/random information, advancing the story, creating obstacles, heroes journey statements making sense, and AI statements surprising actors in a way that led to more creativity.]

Figure 7: Actors survey results.

perience an immediate enhancement of improvisers: in the survey, they reported that the robot sometimes “gets in the way” of good improvisation: “During the show, I found myself mostly watching improvisers work around the limitations of robots” (Q5), as opposed to “laughing at”, “with”, or “about” robots. On one hand, this seems to indicate that the staged robot was seen as an obstacle more than an equal partner on stage, and that our staging of LLMs in multi-party dialogue did not consistently produce convincing human-like multi-party chat. On the other hand, this suggests that the majority responded in a way that kept the robot as subject rather than object. This is further supported with statements from the audience about what they liked best about the show: *“how interaction between robot and human works”*, *“I wasn’t entirely sure which bits were the robots and which bits were the humans. It wasn’t always clear!”*, *“Abstract thinking and creations of robots and creative interpretation of robot thoughts (cyborg) and interactions between humans and so”* and *“Watching the improvisers try to make sense of the strange and funny ideas generated by the AI.”* 40 participants (out of 150) reported they enjoyed *“watching the robot and humans create funny and entertaining stories together.”* We extrapolate from the responses a keen interest from the audience for seeing how to engage a robot, as much if not more than seeing to what degree an artificial intelligence can pass for human intelligence. As discussions around the role of AI in the entertainment industry are often concentrated around human replacement, our audience observations highlight how AI can also be appreciated in entertainment as ontologically independent objects in dialogue with humans. We explore this subject further in a discussion of applications of our findings for future research.

## Discussion and Future Work

### Ethical Implications

As generative AI technology developed, it became widely available to the general public. The fact that text can be generated in the style of a specific writer gave rise to controversies and ethical concerns about plagiarism and misappropriation of artistic work that cannibalise creative economies (Weidinger et al., 2021; Frosio, 2023; Jiang et al., 2023).

By employing generative AI in the context of a show for diverse theatre festival audiences, we provoked and then engaged members of the general public attending our show about their perception of generative AI. We did this by illustrating possible uses of AI, inviting their scrutiny during and after the performance, and addressing concerns of the cast members and artists with whom we discussed about the show. Specifically, we discussed the format and aim of the AI-based improvisation with our cast members, with members of the public to whom we flyered the show, with audiences in informal discussions before and after the show, with audiences during the performance through a qualitative survey, with journalists from over 10 different press venues who interviewed us (see Appendix), and with participants of a panel on art and AI during Edinburgh Festival Fringe 2023. Common concerns focused on copyright and the misappropriation of artists’ work when using image generation, and its destructive impact on the creative economies. Additional concerns included the appropriateness of generated images, their multiple representational biases, and the devaluation (via automation) of human creative work.

In our show format, we presented collaborative and co-creative applications of generative AI that gave human performers agency by inviting them directly into the generation loop, curating and responding to outputs from AI as part of live interaction. As the audience could witness, results of the generative AI were not the final artistic output: they served impermanent and improvised theatre, acting as source material to inspire live performance by human actors.

### Applications for Future Research

Staging LLMs in a noisy multi-party conversational context yielded several insights for future research around the role of AI in live entertainment. The LLMs we deployed appeared technically capable of generating meaningful responses in the context of multi-party dialogue *when provided sufficient data*. How best to provide sufficient data for multi-party dialogue LLMs remains an open question. Our approach captured live audio from performers and relied on a “human-in-the loop” to manually inject context and curate best responses, which introduced delays into the system. Multi-microphone systems supplemented by sentiment analysis on the speech tone, could reduce delays and ambiguity.

Live improvisational theatre settings provide opportunities for audiences to engage with the co-creative potential of AI beyond the logic of human replacement. Using AI to produce static content like images, videos, music or text, which are presented as de-contextualized artefacts, may raise challenges in determining authorship; whereas in the live arts settings, the AI is allowed to appear as a (potentially anthropomorphic) subject alongside human performers, thereby showcasing collaboration. We therefore encourage more research around the perception of artificial intelligence specifically through the medium of live entertainment.

## References

Anil, R.; Dai, A. M.; Firat, O.; Johnson, M.; Lepikhin, D.; Passos, A.; Shakeri, S.; Taropa, E.; Bailey, P.; Chen, Z.;
