get-in and get-out) impacted survey responses as only the first 5 questions were answered by all (150), and the subsequent 15 questions were answered on average by 109 unique individuals. As stated above, we did not collect demographic data in either actor or audience surveys. We noticed audiences of mixed genders, ages (including young teenagers), ethnicity and nationality, and overall representative of typical Edinburgh Festival Fringe attendees.

Audience questions were designed to capture experiences by participants related to how much they anthropomorphised the AI, their general attitudes about AI before the show, and any change in sentiment after the show. Multiple choice and open-ended questions were adapted from earlier studies of anthropomorphism, attachment, and scales for AI authenticity and AI social interaction conducted around the use of companion AI (Pentina, Hancock, and Xie, 2023). Actor surveys were focused on examining the experience of both performing with and as a Cyborg (adapted from previous work (Mathewson and Mirowski, 2018)) and open-ended questions designed to capture a holistic understanding of the performer experience with AI. The complete list of survey questions can be found in the Appendix.

The following results are presented for discussion rather than to make statistically significant claims about audience perceptions of robots on stage. Collecting data “in the wild” of a theatre festival presented too many variables for us to make objective claims, besides our anticipation of the low volume of responses per show. The survey data therefore is used to inform qualitative evaluation of both the technical and performative aspects of the show, and provide insights for future research on robots in live performance.

## Post-Performance Analysis

Results of audience surveys from all 26 performances are shown on Figure 6, and of actor surveys on Figure 7.

## Performance of LLMs

During the shows, the curator was presented with a stream of lines generated simultaneously in response to speech-to-text prompts by our three LLMs: Chat GPT-3.5, PaLM 2,and Llama 2 (see Fig. 3). The reasons for using three LLMs were two-fold: first, this provided robustness in case one of the remote LLM services (Chat GPT-3.5 or PaLM 2) was down, and second, it provided diversity in responses due to the differences between the models (training data and model size). After analysing the dialogue system logs from all 26 performances, we noticed that LLMs were generating different numbers of lines, due to temporary model unavailability (for remotely served LLMs *gpt-3.5-turbo* and *text-bison*) or processing speed (for *llama-2-13b-chat*, served locally). After normalising by the number of generated lines, we noticed that each LLM had, overall, a comparable chance of being selected by the curator. LLMs were not retrained on improv-specific datasets because of the late release of Llama 2 prior to the Edinburgh Festival and because fine-tuning was not available for Chat GPT-3.5 and PaLM 2 at that time.

[Figure: Audience survey results table, showing questions Q3–Q14 with response options and counts/averages.]

Figure 6: Audience survey results.

## Audience Perceptions of an AI Actor

The audience members who filled out our survey reported mixed perceptions of the AI’s “acting” ability. According to results for Q10, the respondents were “rooting for the AI to succeed” more than any other option. However, results around specific acting metrics suggests that most felt that the AI’s performance did not meet expectations. Q12 (109 responses) asked the audience to rate the AI’s performance as a performer in several areas, including *naturalness of communication* (avg: 33), “unique mind” (avg: 45), “machine-like appearance” (avg: 64). Q14 (100 responses) asked if the AI’s responses appeared to be “similar to a human” (avg: 53) and “motivated toward mutual benefit with other actors” (avg: 64). Of note is that despite the appearance of some originality, positive intent, and degree of human-like response, in the context of performance, the AI generally still presented machine-like responses perceived as “ignorant of the scenes” (avg: 76). We discuss later how challenges for LLMs and speech recognition to clearly differentiate between multiple speakers may contribute to this.

## AI Partner vs AI Entertainer

While the AI did not appear to rate high as an improviser, more respondents reported in Q9 feeling “excited about using AI tools for creativity” after watching the show (37%) than before the show (with only 16% feeling more “optimistic about AI as storytellers”). We discuss later how this result might inform the impact of showing AI as collaborating with humans in distinctly *artificial* ways as opposed to presenting the AI in the role of a human.

## Public Perception of Conversational AI Capability

Audiences did not perceive AI as capable of producing multi-party contextually meaningful dialogue. As summed-up by a participant: *“I could see the potential of [the AI] but it was clear he still needs to improve to understand complex multi-human dialogues in rapidly changing scenarios. The voice recognition was also occasionally inputting incorrect words to [the AI] on important sentences which was*
