[Figure: Screen capture of the AI Operator interface with red “Sam” dialogue input (“Type a line of dialogue here”), blue “Alex” scene/context input (“Type scene descriptions or stage directions here”), prompt buttons, and multiple generated and selected dialogue lines.]

Figure 2: Screen capture of the AI *Operator* interface. At the top (in red) is the input box for human character’s name and for lines of dialogue (this input box serves as a backup in case speech recognition does not work properly). Below (in blue) is the input box for the AI character’s name and for scene context metadata, typed by the operator. Below are several buttons to rapidly input scene-specific prompts such as “getting therapy” or “behaving in a sarcastic way”. The interface then shows multiple lines: AI-generated lines are in black, speech recognition lines are in pink, and the curator-selected lines are in cyan.

[Figure: Screen capture of the AI Curator interface showing latest speech recognition text at top, buttons such as “Scroll to latest lines,” “Scroll down after click (on),” “Be more punny,” and “Be more snarky,” with generated white lines and a violet selected line.]

Figure 3: Screen capture of the AI *Curator* interface, on a tablet. The latest speech recognition result is visible on top. Immediately below are buttons to scroll down to the latest AI-generated line, or to quickly input metadata (“more punny” or “more snarky”) for the language agent. Generated lines are in white and curator-selected lines in violet.

[Figure: Example prompt and outputs from three LLMs, with prompt about a distraught couple entering the office of marriage counselor Alex, and columns labeled “gpt-3.5-turbo,” “text-bison,” and “llama-2-13b-chat.”]

Figure 4: Example of instruction prompt and results generated for three different LLMs.

for over 1750 people across 26 unique performances with various groups of 20 different improvisers. Using audience and performer surveys, logs of LLM interactions, as well as close observations of the performances, we examine various practices of prompt engineering, UI/UX design around human-in-the-loop AI curation, audience experience and identification with the presence of AI on stage as part of an ensemble, as well as real time multi-party co-creation of narratives with AI and human improvisers.

The framing of our show was detailed in the festival program, and on-stage at the beginning of the performance, making clear to the audience that AI assisted the creativity of the improvisers (Colton, Charnley, and Pease, 2011).

## Participatory *Human-in-the-Loop* Design

Performing at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe presented a unique opportunity to test new features of state-of-the-art LLMs for audiences who, for the first time, were generally knowledgeable about how LLMs functioned (Kuzior and Kwilinski, 2022) and to collect data on general perception of AI. Moreover, most of our performances had been for short runs of 2-3 consecutive shows: performing numerous shows back-to-back allowed us to engage in concentrated participatory design model of technology, putting audiences and actors directly in *the loop*, together with our development team, working to make new technology entertaining.

## Iterative Design with the Theatre Cast

Staging AI in a real-time theatrical setting presents technical challenges. Of primary importance for the stage is the question of its embodiment. Early Improbotics’s acts involved both a small physical robot[^7] that moves as it “speaks”, as well as a human performer receiving lines from the chatbot via an earpiece and delivering them with physical and emotional interpretation. We refer to the latter as “*Cyborg*”.

Previous work had largely focused on dialogue-based games that operated as a kind of “*Turing Test*” (Mathewson and Mirowski, 2017b) to see how well a chatbot could perform a human activity, and on challenging situations for a robot competing with humans. That concept kept the AI as an object of the scene, specifically the object at the end of the implied joke that success would only be accidental or as a result of skilled improvisers who could weave order back into the chaos it presented.

Prior to adopting ChatGPT-3.5 (OpenAI, 2023), PaLM 2 (Anil et al., 2023) or Llama 2 (Touvron et al., 2023), chatbots on stage usually presented non sequiturs and absurd sounding responses to the human dialogue, and much of the humour came from watching the improvisers try to make sense of what was being said (Loesel, Mirowski, and Mathewson, 2020). With the latter models, we observed that the *Cyborg* performer could provide reasonable and appropriate sounding responses which seemed to also deprive the scenes of humour. Subsequently our company members began debating about a possible inverse relationship between language capabilities of LLMs and what makes them funny on stage.

[^7]: EZ-Robot `ez-robot.com`, Aldebaran `aldebaran.com/en/nao`
