arXiv:2405.07111v1 [cs.CL] 11 May 2024

# Designing and Evaluating Dialogue LLMs for Co-Creative Improvised Theatre

**Boyd Branch$^{*}$** **Piotr Mirowski$^{*}$** **Kory Mathewson**  
Improbotics

**Sophia Ppali** **Alexandra Covaci**  
University of Kent

[Figure: Cast of Improbotics performing on stage. Visible numbered labels: “1. Microphone for speech recognition”, “2. LLM-generated lines”, “3. Tablet for curating LLM lines”, “4. Radio receiver for text-to-speech”, “5. Earphone”.]

Figure 1: Cast of Improbotics performing AI-based improv theatre. The *“Cyborg”* is wearing an earphone connected to a radio system that receives text-to-speech from LLM-generated lines (and curated by an *operator*). The LLM is prompted by speech recognition. Photo: Lidia Crisafulli.

## Abstract

Social robotics researchers are increasingly interested in multi-party trained conversational agents. With a growing demand for real-world evaluations, our study presents Large Language Models (LLMs) deployed in a month-long live show at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. This case study investigates human improvisers co-creating with conversational agents in a professional theatre setting. We explore the technical capabilities and constraints of on-the-spot multi-party dialogue, providing comprehensive insights from both audience and performer experiences with AI on stage. Our human-in-the-loop methodology underlines the challenges of these LLMs in generating context-relevant responses, stressing the user interface’s crucial role. Audience feedback indicates an evolving interest for AI-driven live entertainment, direct human-AI interaction, and a diverse range of expectations about AI’s conversational competence and utility as a creativity support tool. Human performers express immense enthusiasm, varied satisfaction, and the evolving public opinion highlights mixed emotions about AI’s role in arts.

## Introduction

This case study examines the process of designing and staging chatbots to perform improvisational theatre alongside a cast of human actors (Improbotics[^1]), conversing naturally in *Multi-Party Chat* in front of live audiences. We choose improvised theatre (Johnstone, 2014) as a challenging testbed for human-machine co-creation enabled by the ability of language models to respond “intelligently” to performing arts scenarios involving both dialogue with other performers and interaction with audiences. The show builds upon prior work in improvised theatre and comedy with physical robots (Bruce et al., 2000), chatbots (Mathewson and Mirowski, 2017a,b; Cho and May, 2020), story generators (Branch, Mirowski, and Mathewson, 2021), comedy roast generators by company *ComedyBytes*[^2], live machine translation (Mirowski et al., 2020), joke generation (Toplyn, 2022; Goes et al., 2023) and employs the conceit of a human actor (the *“Cyborg”*) taking their lines from a chatbot, similarly to (Mathewson and Mirowski, 2018; Loesel, Mirowski, and Mathewson, 2020) and to the show *Yes, Android*[^3]. Note that none of these works explored the specific solution to multiparty dialogue interaction where the AI simultaneously interacts with multiple improvisational actors on stage.

We deployed a conversational agent powered by three different Large Language Models (LLMs)[^4] to improvise with a company of professional actors for 26 different audiences during the 2023 Edinburgh Festival Fringe[^5]. During the run of the show, we conducted surveys with both cast and audience members to examine general perceptions of conversational AI, and to understand the in-situ impact of AI on creativity, performance expectations when staging AI, and anxieties around robots. With our work we further demonstrate a participatory design model for developing AI tools for the performing arts and examine how design choices impact its abilities to meaningfully contribute to group conversations.

Our study was formed in response to the recent advancements in natural language computing and conversational AI which have highlighted the potential of ubiquitous AI participating in human social and creative lives (Youssef et al., 2022; Lim, Rooksby, and Cross, 2021). While current con-

[^1]: `improbotics.org`

[^2]: `comedybytes.io`

[^3]: `blogto.com/events/yes-android-comedy-robots-toronto`

[^4]: Chat GPT 3.5 (OpenAI, 2023) (OpenAI), PaLM 2 (Anil et al., 2023) (Google), Llama 2 (Touvron et al., 2023) (Meta)

[^5]: `https://www.edfringe.com/`
