features (0.66 QWK) outperform text-based features (0.48 QWK). This contradicts what was observed by Hasan et al. (2019) as humour in standup often depends on the tonality and the well-enunciated punchlines.

## 6 Discussion

Analysis of the predicted ratings show that our model can identify non-funny clips and most funny clips with very high accuracy. In cases of error in assigning ratings to the intermediate funny clips, the assigned ratings are not off by more than one rating point, for *e.g.*, a clip rated 3 is assigned a rating of 2 or 4. This error should not be considered as a failure of our model since assigning a precise funniness rating in a definite way to intermediate funny clips is hard even for humans. So it is reasonable to expect our model to commit similar errors in assigning the ratings as a human would. In the individual confusion matrices obtained for both feature sets, we observe the maximum incorrect predictions among the classes 2/3 and 3/4. We correlate these results with the human annotation and observe that even human annotators differ mostly in these two classes. All our annotators observed that clips with a moderate amount of laughter could be rated either as 2 or as 3, since such annotations are difficult to be discerned to a particular class.

Additionally, we observe that there are only 16/1055 cases where none of the ratings of the three human annotators match with each other. Out of which, only one rating differs (4, 1, 2) with a difference of >= 2. In the other 15 ratings, the difference between the highest and lowest human ratings is <= 2 (*e.g.*, 4-2-3). There are around ~400 cases where 2 annotators fully agree. The rest of the ~600 ratings are where all three annotators fully agree in their ratings for each clip shown to them.

As we evaluate the clips misclassified by our model, we observe that 1) sarcastic and ironic statements generate human laughter, but our model does not detect it, 2) a certain kind of jokes which are morbid also categorized as “dark humour” is consistently classified with lower scores, whereas there is a lot of human laughter generated during such jokes, 3) subtle comparisons, for example, the usage of internet to smoking where the comedian tries to imply that both are harmful to health; are classified as “mildly funny (1 or 2)” by our model. We further evaluate clips with human annotation score difference > 2. Despite providing detailed guidelines which required our annotators to focus only on audience laughter, they could have possibly focused on the content. Due to this subjectivity, we believe that our annotators may have misclassified a few clips. We trace the reasons to 1) country-specificity, thereby leading to less comprehension by the annotator, or 2) insensitivity towards the feelings of females, or 3) bias against a country/race which again leads to the diminished absorption of the joke. This observation validates our initial discussion on the subjectivity of humorous content, along with the observation that Annotator A (female) has consistently scored such clips lower than Annotator B and C (males). However, we also observed that the audience laughter in such clips is more consistent with the scores provided by Annotators B and C.

## 7 Conclusion and Future Work

We propose a novel scoring mechanism to show that humour rating can be automated using audience laughter, which concurs well with the humour perception of humans. We create a multi-model (audio & text) dataset for the task of humour rating. With the help of three human annotators, we manually evaluate our scoring mechanism and show a substantial agreement in terms of QWK. Our evaluation shows that our scoring mechanism can be emulated with the help of pre-existing language models and traditional audio features. Our neural network-based experiments show that the output obtained using various language models like RoBERTa show an agreement with our scoring mechanism. Despite the inherent subjectivity in humour and its different perceptions among humans, we propose a method to rate humour and release this dataset under the CC-BY-SA-NC 4.0 license for further research.

In the future, we would like to evaluate this scoring mechanism with the help of more human annotators. We aim to extend the dataset with the help of more standup comedy clips. Further experiments can be conducted to compare the contribution of audio, video and text features with a more detailed analysis. We would also like to perform experiments by including more audio features like Line Spectral Frequencies, Zero-Crossing rate, and Delta Coefficients. With the release of this dataset, we hope that research in computational humour can be taken further.
