recognize and rate the “funniness” of a joke. With this work, we aim to release a dataset that can help researchers shed light on the humour quotient of a particular text. **The key contributions of this paper are:** (a) Creation and public release of an automatically rated multi-modal dataset based on English standup comedy clips and (b) Manual evaluation of this dataset along with humour-rating quotient defined on a Likert-scale (Likert, 1932).

## 2 Related Work

Most of the previous work on computational humour has been towards the detection of humour. Smaller joke formats like one-liners which have just a single line of context, have been used (Hetzron, 1991). Language models like BERT are used for generating sentence embeddings, which have been shown to outperform other architectures in humour detection on short texts (Annamoradnejad, 2020). Since humour depends on how the speaker’s voice changes, the audio features, and language features have been used as inputs for machine learning models for humour detection. Bertero and Fung (2016) use audio and language features to detect humour in The Big Bang Theory sitcom dialogues. Park et al. (2018) passed audio and language features from a conversation dataset into an RNN to create a chatbot that can detect and respond to humour. Hasan et al. (2019) built a multi-modal dataset that uses text, audio, and video inputs for humour detection. There are existing datasets that rate the humour in tweets and Reddit posts, with the help of human annotators (Miller et al., 2020; Castro et al., 2018; Weller and Seppi, 2019). Creating human-annotated datasets is costly in terms of both time and money and has been one of the noted issues for creating humour datasets. Yang et al. (2019a,b) used time-aligned user comments for generating automated humour labels for multi-modal humour identification tasks and found good agreement with manually annotated data. However, none of the previously existing datasets are created with standup comedy clips.

We present the first multi-modal dataset that uses a non-binary rating system. We use standup comedy clips which makes our dataset scalable and diverse. The dataset is novel in terms of the use of long contextual jokes ($\sim$ 2 mins) and audience laughter which helps annotate the funniness in each clip in an automated manner.

## 3 Dataset Acquisition and Pre-processing

In this section, we describe the creation of our multi-modal dataset and the manual evaluation performed with the help of human annotators.

We gather 36 English language standup comedy shows from 32 comedians available on the web, where the length of each original clip is $\sim$ 1 hour. We further segment them manually into 927 $\sim$ 2 minute long clips. The standups are chosen based on the clarity of the audience feedback laughter. We choose comics from diverse categories of gender, nationality, and culture to ensure representation and reduce bias. While segmenting them, we ignore the clips, which results in laughter on interaction with the audience/personal jokes. We also create text files with the transcript for each audio clip from multiple online sources (Tra, 2020). We collect data for “unfunny” samples by gathering TED talk audio clips with similar speech delivery modes like standup comedy. We also segment them into 128 $\sim$ 2 minute audio clips and create text files of their transcript[^3].

Clips were manually trimmed from the complete audio such that the entire context for the joke is available within the clip. This results in the overall set of $\sim$ 2 minute clips described above. Finally, we acquire 519 $\sim$ 2 minute audio clips and corresponding transcript text files in our dataset. The train-test split is chosen to be 70-30.

### 3.1 Laughter Detection

To find the humour quotient rating of each clip, we use the feedback of the audience laughter as discussed above. We measure the intensity and recorded time intervals of audience laughter in the clip (Gillick and Wlodarczak, 2019). We modify this library to output *the sum of the duration, of all laughs in the clip*. Based on hyperparameter tuning, we set the threshold parameters, adjusting the minimum probability for laughter detection to 0.7. Further, the minimum laughter duration parameter is set to 0.1. This allows us to get the humour quotient from the total duration of the audience laughter in the clip.

### 3.2 Scoring Humour Quotient

The sum of the duration of all the laugh intervals is detected from each clip. Since longer clips tend to have more jokes and hence a higher score, we eliminate this bias by dividing the sum with the

[^3]: TED Talks
