# “So You Think You’re Funny?”: Rating the Humour Quotient in Standup Comedy

**Anirudh Mittal<sup>†</sup>, Pranav Jeevan<sup>◇</sup>, Prerak Gandhi<sup>♣</sup>, Diptesh Kanojia<sup>‡</sup>, Pushpak Bhattacharyya<sup>★</sup>**  
<sup>†,◇,♣,★</sup>Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai  
<sup>‡</sup>Centre for Translation Studies, University of Surrey, United Kingdom  
<sup>†,♣,★</sup>{anirudhmittal,prerakgandhi,pb}@cse.iitb.ac.in  
<sup>◇</sup>pranavjp@ee.iitb.ac.in  
<sup>‡</sup>d.kanojia@surrey.ac.uk

## Abstract

Computational Humour (CH) has attracted the interest of Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics communities. Creating datasets for automatic measurement of humour quotient is difficult due to multiple possible interpretations of the content. In this work, we create a multi-modal humour-annotated dataset (~40 hours) using stand-up comedy clips. We devise a novel scoring mechanism to annotate the training data with a humour quotient score using the audience’s laughter. The normalized duration (laughter duration divided by the clip duration) of laughter in each clip is used to compute this humour coefficient score on a five-point scale (0-4). This method of scoring is validated by comparing with manually annotated scores, wherein a quadratic weighted kappa of 0.6 is obtained. We use this dataset to train a model that provides a “funniness” score, on a five-point scale, given the audio and its corresponding text. We compare various neural language models for the task of humour-rating and achieve an accuracy of 0.813 in terms of Quadratic Weighted Kappa (QWK). Our “Open Mic” dataset is released for further research along with the code.

## 1 Introduction

Humour is one of the most important lubricants of communication between people. Humour is subjective and, at times, also requires cultural knowledge as humour is often dependent on stereotypes in a culture or a country. At times, even cultural appropriation is used to convey humour, which can be offensive to minority cultures<sup>1</sup> (Rosenthal et al., 2015; Kuipers, 2017). The factors listed above, along with the underlying subjectivity in humour render the task of rating humour, difficult for machines (Meaney, 2020). The task of humour classification suffers due to this subjectivity and the lack of datasets that rate the “funniness” of content.

In this paper, we propose rating humour on a scale of zero to four. We create the first multi-modal dataset<sup>2</sup> using standup comedy clips and compute the humour quotient of each clip using the audience laughter. The validity of our scoring criteria is verified by finding the overall agreement between human annotation and automated scores. We use the audio and text-based signals to process this multi-modal data to generate ‘humour ratings’. Since humour annotation is subjective, even the data annotated by humans might not provide an objective measure. We reduce this subjectivity by taking laughter feedback from a larger audience. To the best of our knowledge, no previous literature has proposed an automatically humour-rated multi-modal dataset and used it in ML model-building to automatically obtain the humor score.

Standup comedy is an art form where the delivery of humour has a much larger context, and there are multiple jokes and multiple related punchlines in the same story. The resulting laughter from the audience depends on various factors, including the understanding of the context, delivery, and tonality of the comic. Standup comedy seems to be an ideal choice for a humour rating dataset as it inherently contains some feedback in terms of the audience laughter. We believe a smaller context window restricts computational models, but we know this is not the case for the human audience. Hence, our approach *utilises live audience laughter as a measure to rate the humour quotient* in the data created. We also believe that such an approach can generate insights into what aspects of stories and their delivery make them funny.

Our humour rating model is partly inspired by the character “TARS” from the movie “Interstellar”, which generates funny responses based on adjustable humour setting (Nolan, 2014). An essential step in developing such a machine that can adjust its “funniness” is to create a model that can

<sup>†</sup>Corresponding Author  
<sup>1</sup>Racism in Comedy: An opinion piece.  
<sup>2</sup>Dataset and Code

*Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 10073–10079*  
November 7–11, 2021. ©2021 Association for Computational Linguistics
