### 4.5 Methodology

The audio features and textual features are fed as input to the network for obtaining an output rating on the scale of 0-4. To evaluate our approach for scoring each clip, we obtain Cohen’s weighted Kappa with quadratic weights, *i.e.*, Quadratic Weighted Kappa score (QWK) (Cohen, 1968) between our scoring mechanism (Table 1) and the model output. We use QWK as a scoring mechanism because, unlike accuracy and F-Score, it considers that the system may randomly assign a particular label to a clip. The QWK score also penalizes mismatches more than linear or unweighted Kappa by taking the quadratic weights into account. Additionally, we validate the scores provided by our scoring mechanism by obtaining QWK with the human annotation performed.

| **Pairwise Agreement** | |
| --- | ---: |
| Annotators A and B | 0.643 |
| Annotators B and C | 0.926 |
| Annotators C and A | 0.611 |
| Average pairwise Cohen’s Kappa | 0.634 |
| Fleiss’ Kappa | 0.632 |
| **Krippendorff’s alpha** | 0.632 |

Table 2: Inter-Annotator Agreement (Fleiss’ Kappa and Krippendorff’s alpha) values along with pairwise agreement among the annotators

## 5 Results

In Table 2, we show the Krippendorff alpha, Fleiss’ Kappa, and pairwise agreement between human annotators (Krippendorff, 2004; Cohen, 1960; Fleiss et al., 1971). The inter-annotator agreement between any two annotators is above 0.60, which signifies “substantial” agreement between them (Fleiss et al., 2003). We evaluate our scoring mechanism by comparing it with the manually annotated data by human annotators, as shown in Table 3. An average QWK of 0.595 was observed, indicating significant agreement with them (Vanbelle, 2014).

Table 3 also shows the QWK among the neural network outputs with our scoring mechanism. With the neural network output, we see a significant agreement when compared with our scoring mechanism. Even the GloVe-based model performs reasonably well when matched with our scoring mechanism. Embeddings created from

| **Annotaters** | **QWK** |
| --- | ---: |
| Human A | 0.659 |
| Human B | 0.562 |
| Human C | 0.563 |
| **Average** | 0.595 |
| **Textual Features** | **QWK** |
| GloVe | 0.691 |
| BERT$_{base}$ | 0.722 |
| BERT$_{large}$ | 0.796 |
| DistilBERT | 0.721 |
| RoBERTa$_{base}$ | 0.775 |
| **RoBERTa$_{large}$** | 0.813 |
| XLM | 0.714 |

Table 3: (a) Quadratic Weighted Kappa (QWK) scores between the scores provided by human annotators, and our scoring mechanism (b) QWK scores between the various language models combined with neural networks, and our scoring mechanism.

BERT-derived language models showed considerable improvement from baseline performance. RoBERTa$_{large}$ outperforms all the other language models and shows an improvement of 12% points over the baseline GloVe score. Since RoBERTa is pre-trained on datasets that contain text in a story-like format similar to standup comedy text (Liu et al., 2019), RoBERTa$_{large}$ can be seen performing better than all the other textual features. Analysing the confusion matrix of these models shows that RoBERTa$_{large}$ and BERT$_{large}$ can distinguish different levels of humorousness quite well. They show the highest accuracy in identifying the non-funny clips. DistilBERT could not perform as well as BERT$_{large}$ because humour needs better quality text embeddings to understand the full context, which DistilBERT cannot provide due to the lower number of parameters in the model.

Larger models with embedding dimensions of 1024 (BERT$_{large}$, RoBERTa$_{large}$) and 2048 (XLM) performed better than smaller models. A larger neural network would need a dataset of significant size to train, which also shows that our dataset is reasonably sized. For BERT$_{base}$, when we increased the Bi-LSTMs in the initial layer from 256 to 512, we see a slight improvement in the Quadratic Weighted Kappa value which shows that larger embeddings need a bigger neural network to classify accurately.

We further probe our best-performing model with an ablation test and observe that audio-based
