| Rating | # Clips | Scoring Criteria |
|---:|---:|---|
| 4 | 233 | $\text{score} > \mu + 0.75\sigma$ |
| 3 | 185 | $\mu + 0.75\sigma \geq \text{score} > \mu$ |
| 2 | 256 | $\mu \geq \text{score} > \mu - 0.75\sigma$ |
| 1 | 253 | $\mu - 0.75\sigma \geq \text{score} > 0$ |
| 0 | 128 | $\text{score} = 0$ |

Table 1: Number of clips and the scoring criteria for assigning humour rating to each clip based on the mean ($\mu$) and standard deviation ($\sigma$) of the scores

duration of the clip. We use a Likert-scale to regard for the subjectivity in human opinion on each clip. The mean $\mu$ and standard deviation $\sigma$ of all the scores are calculated. A rule for assigning a 5 point rating (0-4) for each clip is devised as shown in Table 1 (Column 3). The number of samples for each class in our rating system is shown in Table 1.

### 3.3 Human Annotation

Three human annotators (2 males, 1 female) between the ages of 21-33 are assigned to rate the humour quotient in our dataset. The annotators are instructed to rate each clip based *solely on the audience laughter feedback* rather than their perception of the humour quotient of the clip. This allows the annotators to be *unbiased towards a particular comedian or humour genre*. The annotations were performed in a *closed-room environment, without any external noise*.

## 4 Experiment Setup and Methodology

In this section, we describe the features used for the humour rating prediction task along with the additional pre-processing in detail.

### 4.1 Network Architecture

The text embeddings and audio features are given as input to separate Bi-LSTM layers followed by separate, Dense layers (Graves, Alex and Fernández, Santiago and Schmidhuber, Jürgen, 2005) as shown in Figure 1. The output from these two pathways is then concatenated and fed to a classifier that outputs one-hot encoding of the 5-point rating.

[Figure: Neural network architecture diagram with “Audio Features” and “Text Embedding” inputs, each passing through BiLSTM, BiLSTM, and Dense layers, then “Concatenate”, then Dense, leading to “5 Point Rating Output”.]

Figure 1: Neural Network Architecture

### 4.2 Muting Laughter

Before extracting audio features, we remove the audience laughter and isolate the speaker’s voice from each clip. Retaining the audience laughter may enable a neural network to utilize it and predict a score without using information from the text and other audio features. We envision creating a system that can predict the funniness of any clip. Such clips will not have laughter as an indicator, so we train and test our model on the muted clips. Please note that laughter is extracted separately to generate the funniness score (Section 3.1). We use Green (2018) to mute audience laughter from audio segments, thus, resulting in clips that are then used for extracting audio features.

### 4.3 Audio Features

Audio features such as MFCCs, RMS energy, and Spectrogram are extracted from the laughter-muted clips (McFee et al., 2020). These 3 feature tensors are concatenated to create a single feature of dimension 33 for each time sample. The maximum sequence length for audio embeddings was set as 8000. The clips with a lesser duration were padded with zeroes for uniformity. These features convey information about the volume, intonation, and emotion of the speaker, which are important for humour.

### 4.4 Textual Features

Additionally, we use the textual features extracted from various language models to ensure that the context of each joke is retained. We use BERT-derived models to generate contextual embeddings for each clip, which ensure attention over the entire text of the clip (Wolf et al., 2020). BERT-derived models can process sequences of token length 512; thus, we employ them for the entire transcript of each $\sim$ 2 minute clip. We sum the output of the final 4 layers from these models to obtain a clip embedding (Alammar, 2018).

As baseline textual features, we use GloVe embeddings (Pennington et al., 2014). For obtaining textual features, we experiment with BERT$_{base}$, BERT$_{large}$, XLM, DistilBERT, RoBERTa$_{base}$ and RoBERTa$_{large}$ to generate text embeddings (Devlin et al., 2018; Lample and Conneau, 2019; Sanh et al., 2019; Liu et al., 2019).
