prompt)

5. a selected set of 1-3 ideas (selected from (4))
6. caption (a finalist)
7. explanation of the caption (from our annotations)

A portion of our prompt is given in Figure 16, along with an unconditional generation (where the cartoon concept and caption are generated) and a conditional generation. Within 5 samples, GPT-3 invents a scene where a large chicken is playing croquet in a yard, and the caption: “I’m not sure this is what they meant by free range.” Also, when conditioned on a basic description of a real contest which depicts a large group of circus performers intruding on an unsuspecting person in their living room (Contest #818), it generates “I’m never buying a timeshare again.” Looking forward, we expect the matching/quality ranking models could be used in conjunction with this prompt to automatically filter for scene-specific generations with style similar to previous finalists.

## H Related work beyond peer reviewed AI venues

Outside of peer-reviewed NLP venues, several projects have used computational techniques to analyze the contest, usually with the goal of generating AI-assisted entries:

- **The Pudding:** Mishkin et al. (2022) collaborated with GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) to generate entries.
- **coolposts:** Wilson (2019) used topic models to condition an RNN caption generator.
- **LILY Lab @ Yale’s** Spring 2017 projects include a number of caption contest efforts, including work by Prince, Friedman, Zucker, Anbarasu, and Dohrn.
- **The Verge:** Zelenko and Bi (2015) trained a Markov language model on previous winning entries.

## I Some of our favorite New Yorker cartoons

We list our favorite captions below. The corresponding images can be seen by clicking on the cartoonist/author names.

**YC:** “The doctor said it might help me quit.”

— Vince Conitzer/Jeffrey Adam Katzenstein

**JD:** “You are so smart. You look amazing. You inspire me. [Complimentary bread].”

— Seth Fleishman

**JMH:** “Thanks, I’ll write that down.”

— Victoria Roberts

**JDH:** “They’re from Earth. I wonder if they know Dan.”

— Benjamin Schwartz

**LL:** “I want to be feared as a tyrant, loved as a father, and revered as a god, but I also want them to think I’m funny.”

— Zachary Kanin

**AM:** “I can’t believe I’d been carrying them in my mouth.”

— Amy Hwang

**RZ:** “Well, there’s your problem.”

— Edward Koren
