[Figure: Screenshot of GPT-3 prompt examples with readable text.]

In this task, you will see a description of an uncanny situation. Then, you will see five jokes — only one of which was written about the described situation. Pick which of the five choices truly corresponds to the described scene.  
###

This scene takes place in the following location: boardroom. Four birds are in an office. They’re perched around a table. Birds don’t have offices. The scene includes: Parrot, Speech_repetition.  
one of the following funny captions is most relevant to the scene:

A) Just be glad he’s not wearing his kilt today.  
B) The founding fathers were clear. You must win by two.  
C) She’ll appreciate you’re wearing protection.  
D) We have to stop eating the seed money.  
E) Can I interest you in opening an offshore account?

the funny caption that matches the scene is:

In this task, you will see a description of an uncanny situation. Then, you will see two jokes that were written about the situation. One of the jokes is better than the other one. Pick which of the two jokes is the one rated as funnier by people.  
###

This scene takes place in the following location: a cave. A caveman is drawing a picture of an elephant on his cave wall. The elephant is standing by as a model. The elephant is friends with a man. The scene includes: Caveman, Mammoth, Cave_painting. choices:  
A) Trust me. One day your portrait will be used as the symbol of a political party even more primitive than we are.  
B) So I’ve added the pointy trunk. Were there any other unique characteristics the mugger had that you remember?

the funnier is:

Figure 9: Example GPT-3 zero-shot prompts for Matching (top) and Quality ranking (bottom) tasks. In-context prompts are similar, except 5 random labelled training examples are also provided in the prompt.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th colspan="1">Matching</th>
<th colspan="2">Quality Ranking</th>
<th colspan="3">Explanation</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Accuracy (↑)</th>
<th>CrowdAcc (↑)</th>
<th>NYAcc (↑)</th>
<th>B-4 (↑)</th>
<th>Rouge-L (↑)</th>
<th>PPL (↓)</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Random</td>
<td>20.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Caption Only (T5-11B finetuned)</td>
<td>19.4</td>
<td>59.4</td>
<td>64.5</td>
<td>3.61</td>
<td>17.8</td>
<td>34.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>text-ada-001</code> (in context, n=5)</td>
<td>20.1</td>
<td>50.8</td>
<td>49.9</td>
<td>2.04</td>
<td>15.9</td>
<td>2367</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>text-babbage-001</code> (in context, n=5)</td>
<td>19.0</td>
<td>51.3</td>
<td>51.1</td>
<td>2.18</td>
<td>17.2</td>
<td>137</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>text-curie-001</code> (in context, n=5)</td>
<td>20.4</td>
<td>51.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>2.99</td>
<td>18.1</td>
<td>108</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>text-davinci-001</code> (in context, n=5)</td>
<td>35.6</td>
<td>54.4</td>
<td>53.8</td>
<td>3.79</td>
<td>19.5</td>
<td>151</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>text-davinci-002</code> (in context, n=5)</td>
<td><strong>57.2</strong></td>
<td><strong>55.1</strong></td>
<td><strong>54.8</strong></td>
<td><strong>5.07</strong></td>
<td><strong>20.5</strong></td>
<td><strong>107</strong></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 4: GPT-3 scaling experiment results, averaged over 5 cross-validation splits. In all cases, models are given access to the same sample of 5 in-context examples. Overall, <code>text-davinci-002</code> performs best — this appears to be both because of scale (e.g., <code>text-davinci-001</code> generally outperforms <code>text-curie-001</code>) and also because of training improvements in the updated 002 version of the model.

**Forming Matching Instances.** For each high quality caption, we create a matching instance that serves as the correct answer. Next, we randomly assign captions to mismatched contests to form negative, mismatched sets to serve as false options. While the assignment is random, we have two constraints: 1) we assign within cross-validation splits only, to ensure that training/validation/testing captions are disjoint; and 2) we construct the corpus with no answer-only biases by performing the negative assignment such that each answer appears exactly once as a correct answer and exactly 4 times as an incorrect answer in other instances.

**Forming Quality ranking Instances.** For each high quality caption, we aim to sample from the larger set of all submissions for the contest captions that are just “okay.” First, we note that 25 contests from early on in the contest’s history were missing entries, so we are limited to sampling negatives for 679 contests. Next, because many entries are exact duplicates, we deduplicate on string matching, such that “okay” captions are not exact copies of 1) the identified high quality captions; and 2) any other sampled “okay” captions.

Next, for later contests from Jain et al. (2020), we have estimated quality ratings based on crowd feedback for each entry already: in that case, we discard the top third and bottom third of captions according to mean crowd rating — the middle tertile form the “okay” set we sample from.

But, for earlier contests, we do not have direct ratings: we only have access to New Yorker finalists and a large pool of entries. For those cases, we aim to eliminate captions that are clearly likely to be low quality. To accomplish this, we train a quality ranking model (conditioned just on the caption text, rather than any information about the contest) using crowdlabelled data from 253 contests provided by Jain et al. (2020). We sample a good/bad set by selecting from each contest the top and bottom 1000 entries according to their mean crowdsource score: the resulting dataset forms a corpus of 506K captions. We form two sets of labelled data based on the parity of the contest
