<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th colspan="3">Explanation</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th>BLEU-4 (↑)</th>
<th>Rouge-L (↑)</th>
<th>PPL (↓)</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>Caption Only (T5-11B)</td>
<td>3.61</td>
<td>17.8</td>
<td>34.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2">FP</td>
<td>OFA-Huge → T5-Large</td>
<td>3.36</td>
<td>17.5</td>
<td>50.7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>OFA-Huge → T5-11B</td>
<td><u>3.63</u></td>
<td><u>17.9</u></td>
<td><u>30.3</u></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="9">FD</td>
<td>T5-Large</td>
<td>3.54</td>
<td>18.2</td>
<td>41.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>T5-11B</td>
<td>4.33</td>
<td>19.0</td>
<td>23.7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>GPT3-175B (finetuned)</td>
<td><strong>5.42</strong></td>
<td>20.1</td>
<td><strong>21.8</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>↳ 5-shot</td>
<td>↳ 5.07</td>
<td>↳ <strong>20.5</strong></td>
<td>↳ 107</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>↳ Zero-shot</td>
<td>↳ 3.12</td>
<td>↳ 18.8</td>
<td>↳ 225</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>GPT-3.5 (5-shot)</td>
<td>3.94</td>
<td>18.8</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>↳ Zero-shot+CoT</td>
<td>↳ 2.40</td>
<td>↳ 17.3</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>GPT-4 (5-shot)</td>
<td>4.99</td>
<td>20.0</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>↳ Zero-shot+CoT</td>
<td>↳ 3.42</td>
<td>↳ 19.0</td>
<td>-</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 5: Results for the explanation task using automatically computed metrics. Results are averages over 5 cross-validation splits. Underlined results are the best model in the *From Pixels* (FP) setting, where at test time, models only have access to the cartoon images. **Bold** results are best in the *From Description* (FD) setting, where at test time, models have access to human-authored descriptions of the cartoons. GPT-3.5 and GPT-4’s API does not provide log probabilities, so we can’t compute perplexity for those models.

editors, whose tastes underlie the x-axis results.

[Figure: Scatter plot with x-axis labeled NYAcc and y-axis labeled CrowdAcc. Labeled points include HUMAN (estimated), GPT4-5shot, GPT4-0shot, GPT3, T5-11B, T5 Large, OFA→T5 11B, OFA→T5-Large, CLIP, CLIP-0shot, GPT3-0shot, GPT3.5-5shot, GPT3.5-0shot, GPT3.5-CoT, and GPT3-5-shot.]

Figure 13: Graphical version of the ranking results given in Table 2.

## E Automatic evaluation of explanations

For completeness, we provide the results for automatically-calculated explanation-evaluation metrics in Table 5. (Log probabilities are unavailable for GPT-3.5/GPT-4 so we cannot report perplexity for them.) However, we believe that the human evaluations reported in the main body of the text are better quality measures.

## F Machine explanations that were preferred over human ones

**GPT-4** In 8/130 cases, for our human vs. GPT-4 5-shot experiments, the machine generation was preferred to the human reference by 3/3 annotators. In Figure 14 we conduct a close reading of these 8 instances to understand where the human references fell short. In all cases, both were topical, but, for a handful of cases, the machine generation is arguably better because it’s more succinct, or offers a more meaningful detail.

**GPT-3** We also include a close reading of several instances where a majority of annotators preferred GPT-3 annotations vs. our human ones. This occurred in 16/131 cases for our human vs. GPT-3 experiments: in 15 cases, 2/3 annotators preferred the machine generation, and in 1 case, 3/3 annotators preferred the machine generation. We present a few examples of these cases with comments in Figure 15. Similar to GPT-4, most commonly, both the explanations were reasonable, in one case, the human-written explanation missed a pop culture reference to “The Attack of the 50 Foot Woman” (1958) but GPT-3 mentions it. In six cases, we disagree with annotator consensus: the machine caption makes some correct references, but we believe it (sometimes subtly) misses the point.

## G Aiding humor generation with system-assisted brainstorming

Our main experiments focus on three tasks that probe machine capacity for matching, ranking, and explaining caption contest entries. But, given prior interest in generating caption entries, to provide a pointer towards more creative use cases, we developed a curated prompt that re-frames the corpus in a manner that enables the production of cartoon descriptions, concept brainstorming, and, ultimately, caption generation. In contrast to our existing annotations, we are inspired by Wallace (2022)’s framing, where free associations are used to connect-the-dots from cartoons to concepts to captions. So, for 9 finalist captions, we reverse-engineer a plausible brainstorming process that could have given rise to the caption by listing several potential associations from the scene, and, from that list, selecting the 1-3 that underpin the basis for the winning joke. In the end, our prompt consists of 9 examples formatted as:

1. cartoon description (from our annotations)
2. uncanny description (from our annotations)
3. list of entities in scene (from our annotations)
4. list of concepts from the cartoon that could be used for a caption (hand-designed for the
