[Figure: Two example cartoon images with OFA-predicted text boxes. Prompts include “Describe the image.”, “What’s unusual?”, “Where is this?”, and “What entities?”. Left outputs include “a man is playing with a cat in the kitchen.”, “a cat is sitting on a counter and smoking a cigarette.”, “a kitchen”, “smoking, cat”. Right outputs include “a man in a suit and tie is reading a piece of paper while looking at a display case with miniature people in it.”, “this is unusual for scientists to be working with miniature people.”, “a laboratory”, “miniature people, miniature hamster.”]

Figure 4: Example predictions by fine-tuned OFA-Huge from images. The model recognizes many objects/actions/locations, but makes some mistakes (indicated in red): for the left image, for example, it falsely indicates that the cat is smoking, and, on the right, that the mice are small people or hamsters (hamsters have stubby tails). Cartoons by Farley Katz and Paul Noth.

winning caption. CLIP isn’t generative, so we can’t use it for explanation.

**OFA $\rightarrow$ LM.** We use OFA Huge (930M parameters) (Wang et al., 2022), a seq2seq model that supports image/text inputs/outputs; it is pretrained on a variety of vision+language tasks. We fine-tune on the New Yorker corpus by training it to map from (cartoon, prompt) $\rightarrow$ descriptions for the four types of annotations described in §2.2; see Figure 4 for example predictions. We organize the OFA-predicted outputs in the same format as the human-authored descriptions in our From Description (FD) models detailed below (except the inputs are the outputs of OFA), and pass the result to a language model:[^8] this composition can be considered a Socratic Model (Zeng et al., 2022).

**From Description (FD) Models**

We formulate multiple-choice tasks as text-to-text by concatenating the human-authored cartoon descriptions with the choices as input: the target is simply the letter corresponding to the answer, e.g., E. For explanation, we autoregressively generate the explanations conditioned on the descriptions/captions.

**T5.** We fine-tune T5-Large and T5-11B (Raffel et al., 2020); these encoder-decoder transformer models have 770M and 11.3B parameters respectively. For explanation, we sample with temperature 1.0 and nucleus sampling with p=.95 (Holtzman et al., 2020).

**GPT-3, GPT-3.5, GPT-4.** We use these three OpenAI models as both zero-shot and few-shot models. We provide the models with a description of the task, and, for the few-shot case, 5 random labelled in-context examples. Specifically, for GPT-3 we use `text-davinci-002` (175B) (Brown et al., 2020), and for GPT-3.5/GPT-4, we use the May 12, 2023 versions (OpenAI, 2023). For GPT-3, we also consider a fine-tuned version (which is unavailable for GPT3.5/GPT-4).[^9] For zero-shot GPT-3.5/GPT-4, early experiments revealed that prompting models to “think” step-by-step with chain-of-thought (CoT) was helpful (Wei et al., 2022; Kojima et al., 2022). See §B.6 for GPT-3 details, and §B.7 for GPT-3.5/GPT-4 details.

**Baselines**

**Caption Only.** In addition to a **Random-guess** baseline, we fine-tune T5-11B given just the caption, i.e., without knowledge of the cartoon (Trichelair et al., 2019; Poliak et al., 2018).

**Human performance estimates.** Three people (two authors and one person familiar with the project) each attempted 100 randomly sampled instances from both the matching and quality ranking tasks.[^10] It is important to note that *human performance is not an upper bound for model performance on matching and quality ranking* because labels are not generated by a single human and tastes can vary; it can (and does, see §3.1) happen that a machine might be able to reconstruct New Yorker editor preferences more reliably than an untrained human. Annotators were given access to the images, but not the descriptions (akin to the FP setting).

**Hardware+software details.**

T5, CLIP, and OFA were trained using 8 A100 GPUs in pytorch (Paszke et al., 2019). We use the Transformers (Wolf et al., 2020) implementation of T5: T5-11B was trained with deepspeed (Rasley

[^8]: We found that fine-tuning OFA directly was less effective.

[^9]: https://beta.openai.com/docs/guides/fine-tuning; for explanation, we use the default settings; for multiple choice, we set `prompt_loss_weight` to zero. The validation set is not used by the API for early stopping, so we concatenate it with the training set and perform no validation.

[^10]: Matching instances were sampled such that there were no repeated options, i.e., annotators couldn’t use process of elimination across instances. 595 total responses were collected.
