§2); and (c) evaluating two distinct audience preferences: New Yorker editors vs. “the crowd”. Appendix H highlights efforts beyond the scope of peer reviewed AI venues, e.g., blog posts.

**Measuring preferences over captions.** While humor is ultimately subjective, work on the contest has studied modeling *average* preferences of raters. Tanczos et al. (2017) design quality ranking algorithms for the caption contest, framed as identifying the best “arm” in a multi-armed bandit setting; their crowdsourcing system NEXT (Jamieson et al., 2015) is used by The New Yorker. It does not directly use the content of the cartoons/contests. The result is Jain et al. (2020)’s continuously updated corpus, from which we draw some of our data.

**Multimodal and computational humor.** Chandrasekaran et al. (2016) explore humor recognition in images, and Castro et al. (2019); Hasan et al. (2019); Patro et al. (2021); Hasan et al. (2021) explore laughter prediction in TED-talks/sitcoms. Tsakona (2009); Fallianda et al. (2018) study political cartoons. Chakrabarty et al. (2022) recently proposed a version of NLI for figurative language, which can be humorous. Some work has tried to detect whether a sentence is humorous or not (Blinov et al., 2019; Annamoradnejad and Zoghi, 2020). More difficult to evaluate (Valitutti, 2011) are setups where the goal is to automatically generate humorous content in various contexts (Binsted and Ritchie, 1994; Stock and Strapparava, 2003; Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005, 2006; Wang and Wen, 2015; Chandrasekaran et al., 2018; Yoshida et al., 2018; Sundaram, 2018; Shimomoto et al., 2019); a survey is provided by Amin and Burghardt (2020).

**Explaining humor.** In the taxonomy of Tan (2022), joke explanations are most related to proximal mechanisms: “This type of explanation attempts to provide the mechanism behind the predicted label, i.e., how to infer the label from the text”, or efficient cause a la Aristotle (Lombrozo, 2006). Chowdhery et al. (2022) undertake a qualitative exploration of (non-visual) joke explanations.

## 5 Conclusion

We demonstrate that today’s vision and language models still cannot recognize caption relevance, evaluate (at least in the sense of reproducing crowdsourced rankings), or explain The New Yorker Caption Contest as effectively as humans can. However, the partial capacity of today’s AI is still substantial, and may be sufficient for models to serve as creative collaborators, e.g., as brainstorming assistants for humorists/cartoonists. Specifically: 1) our matching/quality ranking models could help entrants receive quantitative feedback on the relevance/predicted quality of their submissions, and 2) the annotated corpus+explanations we introduce could be repurposed for generation (we explore generation of novel cartoons/captions in Appendix G). Finally, a promising avenue for future work focused on generating humorous captions (c.f. our focus of humor “understanding” benchmarks) would be to operationalize the feedback provided by our matching/ranking models in an reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) loop.

**A last remark.** We cannot claim to know whether the human-machine ‘humor understanding gap’ will be closed sooner or later.[^16] But we encourage other researchers to have as much fun with the topic as we did!

## 6 Limitations

The New Yorker Cartoon Caption Contest represents a narrow slice of humor, deriving from a particular language, region, history, culture, style, and set of conventions. Hence, the results of this study do not represent or cover all types of humor.

Our framing of the quality ranking task could be interpreted as seemingly prescriptive (i.e., that joke A is “objectively” better than joke B), but New Yorker editorial selections should not be taken as ground truth for funniness; disagreement about what is funny is expected and valid. Our tasks operationalize the prediction of only *average* preferences (rather than individual ones), and these preferences may include a partiality or bias towards items that conform to the characteristics of prior contest winners or published New Yorker cartoons.

Finally, the explanations in our annotated corpus were largely written by a single author of this paper. While a larger pool of the crowdworkers judged these explanations to be of higher quality in comparison to machine generations, future work would be well-suited to compare the person-to-person variance in explaining why particular jokes are funny.

[^16]: Or never. Is never good for you?
