number (i.e., even vs. odd). We train/validate two T5-Large models based on this split for the binary classification task. While the average validation accuracy we achieve is 65%, we achieve higher precision in identifying the “bad” label: precision-at-10 is 83, precision-at-20 is 77, precision-at-30 is 72. It appears to be harder to identify very good captions than very low rated ones: precision-at-10 is 77, precision-at-20 is 73, precision-at-30 is 70. Upon training these models, we perform inference on all captions in contests without crowd ratings, and discard the 25% of entries with the lowest predicted score. Entries with very low scores have some common characteristics, e.g., they don’t have the *gestalt* of a New Yorker caption, they have many typos/formatting issues, they include the contact information of the submitter, etc. Examples of discarded captions (some are obfuscated for privacy reasons) are:

• THEY COULDN’T WAIT TO MARRY SO THEY CAME TO RECITE THEIR VOWS BETWEEN TAKES FROM “ PRIMITIVE LOVE LIFE”  
• You’re hurting me, will we ever break up?” (@ technology)  
• The stressed is so “Bad’ in the world. “you or me ” did not see(BIG )( “FOOT)  
• Too mammalian, needs reptile.” [NAME], [STATE] [EMAIL]@gmail.com

After identifying a set of captions that are not obviously bad, nor apparently among the top quality submissoins, our second step is to deduplicate entries. Because submitted captions for each contest are frequently identical to other submissions or play off the same core joke concept, we perform the same SBERT+hierarchical clustering semantic deduplication step as we did for sampling the diverse high quality set (described above). Specifically, we extract SentenceBERT embeddings (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) for each of the $N$ entries, and then compute a hierarchical clustering of the embeddings into $.7 \cdot N$ clusters, sampling only a single representitive from each cluster to form a less-redundant set. This removes 30% of the data with close neighbors in the final set: for example, for a contest depicting two monsters eating buildings in New York City, this step downsamples 100 “tastes like chicken” jokes (which end up in a single cluster) to a single exemplar.

After filtering, for all contests, we are left with a (softly) deduplicated pool of candidate entries that are likely to be at least okay, but unlikely to be as good as the verifiably high quality entries. For each high quality entry, we sample an “okay” caption with: 1) similar estimated quality according to the text-only models; 2) similar length in words; 3) similar length in characters; 4) similar amount of punctuation; 5) a dissimilar SBERT embedding.

**Explanation corpus.** After several attempts to solicit high-quality explanations from crowdworkers fell short, one of the authors of this paper decided to simply annotate a corpus of explanations themselves. For each contest, a high quality caption was sampled for annotation — this high quality caption was sampled arbitrarily from the set of New Yorker finalists if they were available, and, in the few cases where New Yorker finalists weren’t available, from the set of high quality crowd captions. Of the 704 sampled explanations, the author reported understanding 651 of them, and wrote an explanation for each. This was a substantial effort: the resulting corpus has a mean of 60 words of explanation per cartoon, and the total length, 39.3K words, is comparable in length to a novella.

## D Graphical version of matching and ranking results.

In Figure 12, we use vertically-stacked bars to illustrate the difference between zero-shot (small dots), five-shot (vertical stripes), and fine-tuned (solid) versions of various models. Human results are set off by dark green lines.

[Figure: bar chart titled “Matching task performance” with sections “From Pixels” and “From Description”; a dark green horizontal line labeled “Human”; legend labels “zero-shot”, “5-shot”, and “fine-tuned”.]

Figure 12: Graphical version of the matching results given in Table 2.

The scatter-plot in Figure 13 uses the same graphical conventions to display the quality-ranking results. Recall our caveat that crowd accuracy may be more statistically reliable, in the sense that crowd selectors, whose tastes underlie the y-axis results, vastly outnumber New Yorker
