[Figure: A portion of a prompt and two `text-davinci-002` samples for generating New Yorker cartoon captions.]

First, you will see a description of a scene from a New Yorker cartoon that has an unusual and/or funny element. Our goal is to brainstorm a caption that we can enter into the caption contest.  
The captions should be funny, and relate to the image. As part of this process, we will brainstorm about potential concepts from the cartoon, and then combine those concepts to make the  
caption. Finally, we will explain the caption, and how it relates to the scene.  
===  
this scene takes place in/at/on a kennel  
description of scene: Two men are sitting in a dog cage next to a dog. One of them is reading a book while saying something to the other man who is visibly upset.  
unusual part of scene: these cages are for dogs in shelters not for humans.  
entities in scene: animal shelter, doghouse.  
potential concepts to form a funny caption based on: men as dogs, chew toys, being adopted at the pound, spaying/neutering pets  
here is a caption that combines these concepts: men as dogs, spaying/neutering pets  
funny caption: Last time I’ll book a discount vasectomy, for sure.  
explanation of how the caption relates to the scene: Spaying/neutering pets is a commonly performed operation for animal sterilization performed at animal shelters; the human equivalent  
sterilization procedure is called a vasectomy and is usually more expensive due to higher quality, human medical requirements. But here, the two men are trying to save money by having their  
operations done at an animal shelter. It’s funny in part not only because this is an unusual way to save money, but also, because vasectomies only are performed once per person, so this is  
literally the last time the person will do this procedure, even if they liked it; the quote implies they aren’t enjoying being locked in an animal cage.  
===

... (8 more examples formated as above) ...

===  
This scene takes place in/at/on

`text-davinci-002 (unconditional sample)`

a garden  
**description of scene: A group of people are playing croquet. One of the players is a very large chicken.**  
unusual part of scene: Chickens are not usually intelligent enough to play croquet and they are not usually that big.  
entities in scene: chicken, croquet.  
potential concepts to form a funny caption based on: farm, clucking (noise chickens make), free-range chicken, backyard game, playing chicken (game, metaphor), cockfighting  
here is a caption that combines these concepts: free-range chicken, backyard game  
**funny caption: I’m not sure this is what they mean by free-range.**  
explanation of how the caption relates to the scene: A play on the term "free-range chicken," which is a type of chicken raised for meat that is allowed to roam freely outdoors, as opposed to  
being confined in a cage. Here, the chicken is not only free-range, but also playing a backyard game. The joke is funny because it’s a play on words (the chicken is both free-range and playing  
a game) and because it’s unexpected (chickens are not usually this big or this intelligent).

`text-davinci-002 (conditional sample, given the italics)`

*a living room*  
***description of scene: A person is sitting in their living room, but is looking towards the door as an entire circus, complete with all performers, is walking through the door.***  
*unusual part of scene: It is unlikely and disruptive for an entire set of circus acts to be intruding on a quiet living room.*  
*entities in scene: circus, bystander, performers, circus acts.*  
potential concepts to form a funny caption based on: unannounced visitors, salespeople, clowns, big top  
here is a caption that combines these concepts: unannounced visitors, salespeople  
**funny caption: I’m never buying a timeshare again.**  
explanation of how the caption relates to the scene: The circus is a metaphor for an unannounced group of salespeople who are trying to sell a timeshare. The joke is funny because it’s an  
extreme example of an unannounced group of salespeople, and also, because it’s disruptive and intrusive.

**Figure 16:** A portion of a 2,407 token prompt that re-formulates various annotations within our corpus in a format conducive for creative collaborations with a language model. The full prompt is available here. Generating line-by-line from this prompt could help to facilitate brainstorming for: unusual cartoon situations (first 4 lines), concepts about real or generated contests that could serve as a basis for a humorous caption (line 5), and, captions themselves (lines 6-8). As a demonstration, we present an unconditional sample, in which the model describes a garden party where a chicken is playing croquet (cherry picked from 3 outputs; temperature=.8, top p=.9, frequency penalty=.2, presence penalty=.05), and also, a conditional sample, given a basic description of Contest #818’s scene, which ran in mid-September 2022 (cherry picked from 5 outputs; same sampling parameters): the caption is arguably funny, but the explanation is not correct.
