<table>
<tbody>
<tr><td># Train/val/test Matching</td><td>1.6K / 538 / 538</td></tr>
<tr><td># Train/val/test Quality ranking</td><td>1.6K / 523 / 523</td></tr>
<tr><td># Train/val/test Explanation</td><td>391 / 130 / 130</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 1: Basic size statistics for our three tasks. We extend Shahaf et al. (2015); Radev et al. (2016); Jain et al. (2020) by (a) proposing matching, quality ranking, and explanation tasks; (b) providing new, dense annotations for each cartoon (see Figure 3); (c) authoring a set of 651 joke explanations.

ered via the NEXT platform (Jamieson et al., 2015; Tanczos et al., 2017), where readers rate captions as “funny”, “somewhat funny”, or “unfunny”; we use the per-caption mean. There are over 114M ratings total (mean/median of 445K/471K per contest). We also sample three additional top captions that aren’t editorial picks to serve as additional “finalists.”

The second corpus, due to Shahaf et al. (2015); Radev et al. (2016) and derived from contests #1–#507, includes 2M unique captions (mean/median 5.2K/5.0K per contest), but no crowd ratings. We remove by hand 55 contests whose images’ resolutions are too low, and identify 80 low resolution (but usable) cases, taking special care when annotating this set (§2.2).

## 2.1 Task Setups

We pose three tasks. Matching and explanation are novel, whereas quality ranking extends the formulations introduced in Shahaf et al. (2015); Radev et al. (2016).

**Matching.** *Can a model recognize when a caption is appropriate for a given cartoon?* Five choices are given, only one of which truly corresponds. For the example in Figure 1, we supply the following possibilities:

(a) *O.K. I’m at the window. To the right? Your right or my right?*  
(b) *I’d kill for some cream cheese.*  
(c) *Bob just came directly from work.*  
(d) **Can you please pass the cow?**  
(e) *They only allow one carry-on.*

The correct caption is a finalist for the cartoon. Negative choices are randomly selected finalists from other contests, and as a result, are great captions for some *other* contest’s image.[^6] In some cases, matching depicted objects to their textual references may suffice, but in other cases, the relationship is more indirect. For example, Figure 2 (top) contains a subtle reference to Jane Goodall, thus requiring external knowledge; Figure 2 (bottom) relies on a stereotype of pharmaceutical companies being untrustworthy, hence requiring reasoning beyond the literal text.

**Quality ranking.** *Can a model identify highly rated captions?* For each finalist, we sample for comparison a caption that was not selected as a finalist, and ask models to identify which one (the real one or the distractor) was rated as higher quality. As preprocessing, we run one round of text-only filtering to discard submissions that are easily identifiable as low quality, and also perform semantic deduplication; more details in Appendix C. Here is the end result for Figure 1:

(a) **Can you please pass the cow?**  
(b) Welcome to Insomniacs Anonymous.

Which caption a particular individual prefers can be a matter of personal taste; but there is a general preference among our human annotators for the true finalist (see §3).

**Explanation.** *Can a model generate as good an explanation as a human for why a caption-and-image combination is funny?* Free-form explanations of why captions are funny/appropriate for their corresponding image were written by an author of this paper.[^7] The rough annotation guidance was: “In a few sentences, explain the joke as if to a friend who doesn’t ‘get it’ yet.” Starting from a random finalist for each contest, after filtering out cases where the author did not understand the joke, a corpus of 651 human-created joke explanations to serve as comparison points was formed (mean/median 60/59 words, 39.3K total). We consider a model to succeed at this task if human judges, presented with (unlabeled) pairs of author/machine-generated explanations, do not show a preference for the author-generated ones.

**Evaluation metrics.** For matching and quality ranking, we evaluate using accuracy. For quality ranking, we report *NYAcc* — the average accuracy over instances where the finalist was an official New Yorker finalist — and *CrowdAcc*, where the

[^6]: Distractors are balanced across instances so that a model that only examines the answer choices cannot achieve better than chance accuracy.

[^7]: Several attempts to solicit explanations from crowdworkers were not satisfactory; similarly unsuccessful were prompting experiments with GPT-3 inspired by Wiegreffe et al. (2022); Marasović et al. (2022) — too few of the sampled explanations were correct to bootstrap a corpus.
