Jeff Rasley, Samyam Rajbhandari, Olatunji Ruwase, and Yuxiong He. 2020. Deepspeed: System optimizations enable training deep learning models with over 100 billion parameters. In *KDD*.

Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sentence embeddings using Siamese BERT-networks. In *EMNLP*.

Arthur Schopenhauer. 1818. *The world as will and idea*, volume 1.

Dafna Shahaf, Eric Horvitz, and Robert Mankoff. 2015. Inside jokes: Identifying humorous cartoon captions. In *KDD*.

Erica K Shimomoto, Lincon S Souza, Bernardo B Gatto, and Kazuhiro Fukui. 2019. News2meme: An automatic content generator from news based on word subspaces from text and image. In *Conference on Machine Vision Applications*.

Thomas R Shultz. 1976. *A cognitive-developmental analysis of humour*: Transaction Publishers.

Oliviero Stock and Carlo Strapparava. 2003. Getting serious about the development of computational humor. In *IJCAI*.

Rajesh Shanmuga Sundaram. 2018. *Generation of Humorous Caption for Cartoon Images Using Deep Learning*. Ph.D. thesis, Texas A&M University-Commerce.

Chenhao Tan. 2022. On the diversity and limits of human explanations. In *NAACL*.

Ervin Tanczos, Robert Nowak, and Bob Mankoff. 2017. A KL-LUCB algorithm for large-scale crowdsourcing. In *NeurIPS*.

Paul Trichelair, Ali Emami, Adam Trischler, Kaheer Suleman, and Jackie Chi Kit Cheung. 2019. How reasonable are common-sense reasoning tasks: A case-study on the Winograd schema challenge and SWAG. In *EMNLP*.

Villy Tsakona. 2009. Language and image interaction in cartoons: Towards a multimodal theory of humor. *Journal of Pragmatics*, 41(6):1171–1188.

Alessandro Valitutti. 2011. How many jokes are really funny? In *Human-Machine Interaction in Translation: Proceedings of the 8th International NLPCS Workshop*.

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you need. *NeurIPS*.

David Wallace. 2022. Lecture notes for MIT 2.00b toy product design: Innovation and associations.

Peng Wang, An Yang, Rui Men, Junyang Lin, Shuai Bai, Zhikang Li, Jianxin Ma, Chang Zhou, Jingren Zhou, and Hongxia Yang. 2022. Unifying architectures, tasks, and modalities through a simple sequence-to-sequence learning framework. In *ICML*.

William Yang Wang and Miaomiao Wen. 2015. I can has cheezburger? a nonparanormal approach to combining textual and visual information for predicting and generating popular meme descriptions. In *NAACL*.

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. In *NeurIPS*.

White, E. B. 1941. Preface. In E. B. White and Katherine S. White, editors, *A Subtreasury Of American Humor*, page xvii. The original version of this quote appeared as a preview in *The Saturday Review* (1941), credited to both Whites. But, the quote appears in the preface to *A Subtreasury* (1941) with authorship solely credited to E.B.. We thus credited the quote itself to E.B., and credited both E.B. and K.S. as editors of the anthology in which it appears in non-preview form.

Sarah Wiegreffe, Jack Hessel, Swabha Swayamdipta, Mark Riedl, and Yejin Choi. 2022. Reframing human-AI collaboration for generating free-text explanations. In *NAACL*.

Hannah Wilson. 2019. Project four - nobody knows you’re a bot.

Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Remi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu, Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin Lhoest, and Alexander Rush. 2020. Transformers: State-of-the-art natural language processing. In *EMNLP: System Demonstrations*.

Kota Yoshida, Munetaka Minoguchi, Kenichiro Wani, Akio Nakamura, and Hirokatsu Kataoka. 2018. Neural joking machine: Humorous image captioning. In *CVPR Language & Vision Workshop*.

Michael Zelenko and Frank Bi. 2015. On the internet, nobody knows you’re a machine.

Andy Zeng, Maria Attarian, Brian Ichter, Krzysztof Choromanski, Adrian Wong, Stefan Welker, Federico Tombari, Aveek Purohit, Michael Ryoo, Vikas Sindhwani, Johnny Lee, Vincent Vanhoucke, and Pete Florence. 2022. Socratic models: Composing zero-shot multimodal reasoning with language. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.00598*.
