[Figure: Instructions, example, and interface for a Cartoon Description HIT. Top right example cartoon shows pedestrians walking around/over a man lying on a sidewalk. Lower cartoon labeled “KUPER” shows a giant sword mounted or protruding through a wall above a throne-like chair and a person standing nearby. The interface includes text prompts and empty response boxes.]

**NOTE: The instructions have probably changed since the last time you did this HIT!**  
While this HIT is similar, please take a moment to familiarize yourself with the modifications

## Your task is to analyze a given image.

There are three parts

First, **describe the literal contents of the image image** by writing a 2-3 sentence summary. Consider focusing on:

- Where is the scene taking place?
- Who/what is in the scene? What are they doing?
- What objects and actions are being depicted?
- Is anyone particularly happy/unhappy/mad/etc.?

There's no need to be too formal, but please do your best to write full, grammatical sentences (see the examples below).

Second, these images may depict interesting/unusual situations. **Highlight these uncanny/unusual elements**, by giving a 1-2 sentence explanation of why they are uncanny, e.g., "[object/character/...] is unusual/uncanny/out-of-place because ...". Consider focusing on:

- Which objects, actions, entities, etc. are out-of-place and why?
- Are the actions any characters are undertaking strange?
- Do the characters have any unusual identifying characteristics?

Third, in a single sentence, please write **the question that you most want answered about the scene**, based on the image, your description, and your highlight of which parts are unusual/uncanny (see examples below). Optionally, you can include a second question that you would like answered if there are multiple uncanny elements to the scene.

**Please describe the literal contents of the image in 2-3 sentences:**

*A man in a suit is lying down on a sidewalk in a busy city as pedestrians walk over him. The pedestrians seem to be frustrated and confused that the lying down man is blocking their way, while the man himself seems to be carefree.*

**Please highlight/explain any unusual/out-of-place elements in 1-2 sentences:**

*It's unusual that the man is lying in the middle of a sidewalk not only because this action is disruptive to other pedestrians, but also because he's in a nice suit that is likely to become dirty. Furthermore, his carefree expression indicates that, despite these downsides, he doesn't care and is in no rush to move.*

**In 1 sentence, which question would you most like answered about the scene?**

*Why is the man lying on the sidewalk?*

**Please describe the literal contents of the image in 2-3 sentences:**

**Please highlight/explain any unusual/out-of-place elements in 1-2 sentences:**

**In 1 sentence, which question would you most like answered about the scene?**

**(optional) In 1 sentence, which question would you also like answered about the scene?**

Figure 6: Instructions, example, and interface for the Cartoon Description HIT. We gather, but do not use, the final “Which question?” annotation in our experiments.
