[Figure: Annotation examples for two New Yorker cartoons. Visible labels include “Locations,” “Descriptions,” “Uncanny Descriptions,” and “Entity Links.” Example entries include “a science lab,” “a laboratory,” “doctor’s office”; descriptions such as “A mouse is wearing a jetpack and cheating at a maze. Two scientists stare at him.” and “A safe is on the exam table in a doctor’s office. The doctor is listening to the safe with a stethoscope.”; uncanny descriptions such as “The mouse is wearing a jetpack to cheat at the maze. Mice are not that intelligent.” and “The doctor is using a stethoscope to check the heartbeat of an object with no heart.”; entity links including “wiki/Laboratory_mouse,” “wiki/Tryons_Rat_Experiment,” “wiki/Mouse,” “wiki/Jet_pack,” “wiki/Maze,” “wiki/Physical_examination,” “wiki/Stethoscope,” “wiki/Safe-cracking,” and “wiki/Safe.”]

**Figure 3:** For each of 704 cartoons, we gather several types of annotations from human participants, including locations, descriptions, descriptions of uncanniness, and relevant entities in the form of English Wikipedia links. Annotations shown are true random samples from the corpus. Cartoons by Mark Thompson and Will McPhail.

“finalist” caption was selected by the crowd as high quality. These two measures allow us to account for different audience tastes. For explanation, we conduct pairwise human evaluations to test several hypotheses detailed in §3.2. To complement these human evaluations, we also report in Appendix E automatic metrics that take into account the human-written reference: (a) BLEU-4 (Papineni et al., 2002) using Post (2018)+ROUGE-L (Lin, 2004); and (b) word-level perplexity.

**From Pixels + From Description.** We consider two experimental settings. In **From Pixels (FP)**, a vision+language model undertakes image processing, i.e., at test time, the only contest information available is the image itself. In the second setting, which we call **From Description (FD)**, we factor out visual processing by providing the model with human written annotations, described in §2.2. FD models thus simulate access to a human-level computer-vision system.

## 2.2 Annotation of cartoons.

We collect several types of annotations about the 704 cartoons; these either serve as input to models in the *from description* setting, or as additional information available only at training time in the *from pixels* setting. For each cartoon, we gather:

(i) A phrase describing the setting of the scene, e.g., “an office” or “the park” (2 per cartoon)

(ii) A literal 1-3 sentence description of the scene (3 per cartoon)

(iii) A 1-3 sentence description or explanation of what makes the scene unusual (3 per cartoon)

(iv) 2-3 English Wikipedia links that an annotator identified as relevant, to serve as a proxy for world knowledge (2 per cartoon)

A random sample of annotations is shown in Figure 3. We used Amazon Mechanical Turk, and paid crowdworkers a minimum of $15/hr. Low-resolution images involved special treatment: 1) we offered additional pay to crowdworkers; and 2) at least one of the annotations is conducted by an author of this work using the same HIT interface. Details including qualification rounds, screenshots of the HITs, etc. are given in Appendix A.

## 3 Experiments

We split the 704 cartoons into 5 cross-validation splits such that entire contests are held out at test time. Task construction details are in Appendix C; modeling details (e.g., hyperparameter sweeps, task formatting) are in Appendix B.

### From Pixels (FP) Models

We explore two vision+language models.

**CLIP.** We fine-tune CLIP `ViT-L/14@366px` (Radford et al., 2021) (428M parameters), which consists of a text Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017) and a vision Transformer (Dosovitskiy et al., 2021) pretrained to align images/captions in the WebImageText corpus (400M pairs). For multiple choice, we use InfoNCE (Oord et al., 2018) to encourage the cosine similarity of the cartoon/correct answer to be higher than the incorrect ones. For zero-shot classification, we use the prompt `a new yorker cartoon with`
