better on automatic evaluation metrics for explanation like BLEU-4 and Rouge-L (see Appendix E), which suggests that the earlier family of may fit the surface features of the generation task more effectively, e.g., 5-shot GPT-3 achieves 5.07 BLEU-4 compared to 4.99 for 5-shot GPT-4. This suggests that mirroring the surface form of our explanation corpus is not sufficient to generate the highest quality explanations.

**Q7: Does our best model, GPT-4, explain jokes as well as humans?** *Test: Human vs. Few-shot GPT-4.* Answer: **No.** Human-written explanations are preferred by annotators in 68% of pairwise cases.[^14] We qualitatively examine the 39/130 cases where the human reference receives 3/3 annotator votes. In these cases, the machine-generated explanations usually incorrectly interpret the image, e.g., in one case, a caption jokes about two cavepeople in a hole looking at a caveman in a cave with the caption “Personally, I’m not a big fan of modern architecture.”; GPT-4 incorrectly interprets the hole as “modern architecture” instead of the cave. We also examine the 8/130 cases where the GPT-4 produced caption was unanimously preferred: a close reading of these cases is provided in Appendix F. In 3 of these 8 cases, the human explanations, while on the right track, had slight inaccuracies, and in the remaining 5 cases, the human and machine explanations both express the same idea, but with different styles (GPT-4’s sometimes arguably being more formal, detailed, or fluent).

### 3.3 Error Analysis for Matching

We conduct an error analysis of a performant *from pixels* model (`CLIP ViT-L/14@336px` fine-tuned), and a performant *from description* model (GPT3-175B finetuned). We concatenate the test set predictions over the 5 cross validation splits, and ask:

**Q8: Are some contests more difficult than others?** Answer: **Yes.** *Details:* We conduct a $\chi^2$ test by forming a contest-by-correctness (704-by-2) contingency table, aggregating over the 3-6 matching instances for each contest, and find that errors are clustered according to contest ($p < .05$ for both CLIP and GPT-3).[^15] There’s a moderate Spearman correlation between the per-contest accuracy between the models ($\rho = .28, p \ll .001$), but (as a null hypothesis) only a slight correlation between contest date and difficulty for either (later contests easier, GPT3/CLIP $\rho = .07/.08, p = .08/.05$). When the models’ predictions agree, they are correct 87% of the time. When GPT-3 is wrong, CLIP is right only 38% of the time; under the null hypothesis that their errors are uncorrelated, CLIP’s accuracy would be 62% ($p \ll .001$ errors are uncorrelated, permutation test). However, when we attempt to identify consistent factors that predict contest difficulty using various visual/linguistic predictors, we find hard vs. easy difficult to predict *a priori*; our best classifiers perform only slightly above random. We will distribute the hard vs. easy contest lists as a resource for future work.

## 4 Related Work

**Humor.** Raskin (1979) and Attardo (2008) highlight three “great families” of theories of the roots of humor: 1) *hostility*, claims of superiority over someone or something (Gruner, 1978; Billig, 2005); 2) *release* of a constraint (Freud, 1905; Fry, 1963; Mindess, 1971) and 3) *incongruity*, (sometimes “incongruity-resolution”; Mulder and Nijholt, 2002) the introduction (and subsequent resolution) of generally incompatible contexts (Schopenhauer, 1818; Shultz, 1976). Shahaf et al. (2015) note that most New Yorker caption contest cartoons involve incongruous situations.

**NLP + The Caption Contest.** King et al. (2013), Shahaf et al. (2015), and Radev et al. (2016) analyze 5, 16, and 50 New Yorker Caption Contests, respectively. Best-performing features for identifying the funniest among a set of caption choices include: perplexity, match to image setting and uncanniness description, readability, proper nouns (Shahaf et al., 2015), overlap with WordNet’s (Fellbaum, 1998) “person” and “relative” synsets, lexical centrality among submissions (Radev et al., 2016, inspired by Mihalcea and Pulman (2009)), and sentiment (both papers). Our “location” and “uncanny description” annotations are direct analogs of the “context” and “anomaly” tags of Shahaf et al. (2015), and our data incorporates that generously released by the previous researchers. Our extensions are (a) the addition of two novel tasks; (b) using new data/resources/models to curate ranking pairs (see

[^14]: For a similar, earlier set of experiments with FT-GPT-3 vs. human, human was preferred in 87.8% of pairwise cases.

[^15]: Similar $\chi^2$ tests find no evidence of correlation between correctness and (a) cross-validation split (5-by-2 table; p=.84/.14 for GPT3/CLIP); or (b) which captions are randomly assigned as negative choices (2646-by-2 table, p=.92/.79 for GPT3/CLIP).
