## B.3 OFA

We use validation-set early stopping on cross-entropy loss, and fine-tune OFA separately for each cross-validation split. After fine-tuning, we select the top-1 prediction according to beam search (n=5). We finetune OFA Huge with a learning rate of 5e-5, which was determined via a small grid search over the first cross-validation split. We use label-adjusted smoothed cross entropy loss as implemented by the OFA authors[^17] with smoothing of 0.1. We train for a maximum of 7 epochs with a warmup ratio of 6%. For each image, we query for the four different types of annotations shown in Figure 3. To facilitate this, in addition to providing OFA with the image, we also provide it with a per-annotation-type prompt:

1. for locations: “Where does this take place?”
2. for descriptions: “Describe this image.”
3. for uncanny: “What’s unusual about this image?”
4. for entities: “What entities are there?”

In early experiments, instead of composing with a language model, we did attempt to fine-tune OFA directly for the explanation task. However, we found that the resulting perplexity (roughly 300) was significantly higher than for other fine-tuned models, with the errors difficult to diagnose.

## B.4 T5-Large/T5-11B.

For T5-Large, we conduct a small, per-cross-validation split learning rate search between {1e-4, 1e-5, 5e-5} and keep batch size fixed at 64. For T5-11B we use a fixed learning rate of 1e-5 and a batch size of 64.

## B.5 GPT-3 Zero Shot/In Context

We use GPT-3’s `davinci-text-002` model for our main zero shot and in-context learning experiments. Examples of zero-shot prompts for all tasks are given in Figure 9. The in-context prompts are similar, except they contain 5 random samples from the training set. A full, randomly selected in-context prompt for the explanation generation task is given in Figure 10.

## B.6 GPT-3 Fine-tuning

We use the OpenAI fine-tuning API to fine-tune `davinci`, a 175B parameter language model.[^18] While the precise details of how the API works are not currently available (e.g., which parameters are updated, or which version of `davinci` is used), we use the same cross-validation setup as for the other models so that the results are comparable. The total fine-tuning cost is approximately (3 tasks) × (5 cross-val splits) × (40 dollars per fine-tune) = 600 dollars.

## B.7 GPT 3.5/GPT-4 Details

Between submitting this work and its acceptance, OpenAI released two new models, GPT-3.5 (sometimes called ChatGPT when accessed through the chat interface) and GPT-4; we updated our results to include these models. Figure 11 provides an example of a prompt/response in the new “Chat” API, which requires a more structured conversational prompt compared to the GPT-3 “Completion” API; this prompt includes a “system” prompt, which describes the desired behavior of the model, e.g., “You are CaptionContestGPT...” We sample with default hyperparameters in all cases. The cost of GPT 3.5 is an order of magnitude less than GPT-4. In total our GPT-4 queries cost on the order of $4K.

# C Task Construction Details

**Identification of High Quality Captions.** For each contest, our first step is to identify a set of high quality captions; these are involved in construction of instances for all three tasks. For cases where we have access to the three official New Yorker finalists, all are automatically added to the high quality set. Next, for cases where we have crowd ratings, we consider the top 5 crowd ranked captions according to the `mean score` provided by Jain et al. (2020). From these top 5, we select 3 diverse candidates among these using a semantic deduplication method: specifically, we compute the SBERT (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) vector for each candidate using `paraphrase-MiniLM-L6-v2`, compute a hierarchical clustering of the candidates, and sample a single candidate from each cluster — the result is a set of candidates that is representative of all clusters. In total, there are 2.7K high quality captions across 704 contests. Each contest either has 3 high quality captions (coming from the official New Yorker finalists or, if those aren’t available, highly crowd-rated options), or 6 (if both official finalists and crowd rated are available).

[^17]: https://github.com/OFA-Sys/OFA  
[^18]: https://beta.openai.com/docs/guides/fine-tuning
