[Figure: Composite examples for three tasks. Column headers: “Matching”, “Quality Ranking”, “Explanation Generation”. Row 1 matching options: “A) I always figured hell would be less ironic.” “B) You both know Jane” “C) I’d better give it a little longer. It’s a really tough case.” “D) And then I thought ‘Wow, my cat really is kind of sexy.’” “E) We’ll eventually miss him.” Quality ranking shows trophy next to “You both know Jane” vs. “Accounting meet archives.” Explanation heading: “You both know Jane”. Explanation text: “A reference to Jane Goodall. Goodall is a scientist who is famous for studying chimpanzees, as represented by the ape at the party. This party is likely a scientific conference on biology, but the unusual part is that the subject of the study, the chimp, is invited. Both the peer scientist and the chimpanzee know Goodall, but for different reasons.” Row 2 matching options: “A) Can I interest you in an offshore account?” “B) So how much of the story is autobiographical?” “C) Don’t give me that holier-than-thou attitude!” “D) They give me free drinks if I keep my tray table down.” “E) Publicly, we are still saying there are no side effects” Quality ranking shows “I’ll admit he may look ugly, but his resume is beautiful.” vs. trophy next to “Publicly, we are still saying there are no side effects”. Explanation heading: “Publicly, we are still saying there are no side effects”. Explanation text: “This is a board meeting of a shady pharmaceutical company. The drug the company makes has the side effect of turning people into cartoon monsters, and most everyone at the company has taken it. Nonetheless, they are choosing not to warn the public. This plays upon a common belief that pharmaceutical companies care more about profits than they do the well-being of their patients.”]

Figure 2: Instances of our three tasks. *Matching* requires models to select the finalist caption for the given cartoon from among distractors that were finalists, but for *other* contests. *Quality ranking* requires models to differentiate a finalist from a non-finalist, both written for the given cartoon. *Explanation* requires models to generate free-text explanations of how a high-quality caption relates to the cartoon. Cartoons by Robert Mankoff and Mick Stevens.

an association between a large mug and a large amount of cream/milk — perhaps a whole cow’s worth. Further, matching a caption to an image is not sufficient: non-finalist entries (e.g., “...Insomniacs Anonymous” in Figure 1) also match the image, but something else makes one seem funnier than the other. Finally, even if a model can accurately identify winning submissions, we would like it to also be able to explain *why* a particular highly rated/relevant caption is funny.

We cover our three tasks in two settings: in the *from pixels* setting, models are given access only to the cartoon images at test time, and must perform computer vision; in the *from description* setting, we allow models access to a newly-collected, human-authored corpus of cartoon descriptions, thus simulating access to a human-level computer-vision system — or, alternately, facilitating benchmarking of models that don’t have a built-in image-processing component. The annotations we collect and release are rich and multifaceted: they describe the image overall and its locations and entities, what’s unusual about the image, and an explanation of the joke. We view this effort as a significant contribution of our work.

Our results reveal a gap between AI and human-level humor “understanding.” In the *from pixels* setting, our best multimodal model (fine-tuned CLIP ViT-L/14 (Radford et al., 2021)) achieves 62% accuracy on a 5-way multiple choice task, but humans achieve 94% in the same setting. Even with significant manual annotation of the cartoons in the *from description* setting (and despite significant improvements in language modeling performance since this work’s submission[^2]) large language models still fall short: human explanations are still preferred in more than two-thirds of cases compared to our best explanation model, 5-shot GPT-4.

We release our challenging NLP/vision benchmarks,[^3] annotations, models, leaderboard, and code at https://capcon.dev/. Beyond AI research, we also hope that our work will spur progress in human-AI collaboration tools for cartoonists, contest entrants, and beyond (see Appendix G for AI-generated captions).

## 2 Datasets and Task Setups

Our corpus compiles 14 years of weekly New Yorker caption contests. Each contest consists of: (1) a captionless cartoon; (2) that week’s entries; (3) the three finalists, selected by New Yorker editors; and (4) for some contests, quality estimates for each submission collected via crowdsourcing.[^4]

The corpus was constructed from two sources. The first is Jain et al. (2020), from which we obtain roughly 250 contests (mean/median 6.1K/5.7K unique captions per contest; 1.5M total), starting from #508.[^5] Crowd ratings in this corpus are gath-

[^2]: GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) was the most performant in Jan. 2023 when this work was submitted, but we have since updated our results.

[^3]: Our data may contain offensive jokes. We manually removed a handful of cases we observed to target specific protected classes. We do not endorse the jokes in the corpus, but rather, view them as interesting objects of study.

[^4]: We regret that The New Yorker does not currently have an alliterative-paragraph contest.

[^5]: We manually corrected some errors in the corpus.
