# A Crowdworking Details

We use three Mechanical Turk interfaces to gather data. These are:

1. *Cartoon description* (Figure 6). We ran this HIT 3 times per cartoon.
2. *Cartoon wikipedia links* (Figure 7). We ran this HIT 2 times per cartoon.
3. *Pairwise explanations* (Figure 8). We ran this HIT 2.7K times to facilitate the comparisons in §3.2

**Qualification+training rounds.** To ensure our set of crowdworkers were properly trained for the annotations, we ran two types of qualification rounds: one for the description/link HITs, and one for the pairwise explanation HITs.

For the description/link HITs, our qualification round was based off an earlier and more involved HIT that involved a joint setup where, for 3 cartoons, users described cartoons, highlighted image regions, explained jokes, etc. We allowed users from {AU, CA, NZ, GB, US} with 10K prior approved HITs and a minimum acceptance rate of 97% on their previous HITs to participate. Some of the cartoons and captions contain mature themes; we provided the recommended disclaimer for this and other HITs: “WARNING: This HIT may contain adult content. Worker discretion is advised.” We manually graded the responses of 30 annotators in a qualification round, and qualified 21. Through a mix of the older, more involved HITs and the streamlined HIT in Figure 6, which is a pared-down version of the original HIT without captions, we gathered descriptions of the cartoons. We also gathered the locations/Wikipedia entity links from the qualified annotators. These annotations were gathered in mid-to-late 2021.

About 9 months later, we conducted a second set of Mechanical Turk studies for pairwise judgment evaluations for explanation. A second qualification round was run, in which we asked annotators to rate the quality of several joke explanations which we manually selected to be good/bad across various desirable axes. We qualified 29 out of 51 annotators who attempted the HIT via manual inspection of their responses. This set of annotators were given access to the final pairwise-judgment HITs.

Crowdworking studies of standard computer vision corpora (involving no personal disclosures) are not required by our IRB to be reviewed by them. While the authors of this work are not lawyers and this is not legal advice, this opinion is based on United States federal regulation 45 CFR 46, under which this study qualifies and as exempt. We hashed crowdworker IDs in the public release so annotations cannot be back-traced to individual workers.

# B Additional Experimental Details

## B.1 From Description details

For each cartoon, we have multiple annotations of each type, as detailed in §2.2. During training, we utilize all location/description/uncanny description/sets of links, but at test time, we randomly sample a single set of these four annotation types such that inference requires only a single forward pass. For fair comparison, the randomly sampled description available at test time is held constant between all methods.

More detail about how we managed multiple annotations: because we have 2 locations × 3 descriptions × 3 uncanny descriptions × 2 entity links, there are potentially 36 possible combinations we could use to form a *from description* instance for each cartoon. However: tuples are constructed at the annotator level to account for potential dependencies between annotation types: because descriptions/uncanny descriptions were were collected in the same HIT, the uncanny description may reference entities from the description because they were authored at the same time by the same annotator in sequence. Similarly, the (locations, links) were collected in the same HIT. So, we instead consider all six possible tuples holding author constant between HITs, i.e., 3 (description, uncanny description) × 2 (location, link). For test time, select a single random valid tuple of annotations for evaluation, which is fixed for all comparisons.

## B.2 CLIP

For fine-tuning results, we do linear warmup for 200 steps and conduct a small learning rate search on the validation set for each cross-validation split independently between {5e-5, 1e-5, 5e-6}, keeping batch size fixed at 32. To keep the entire cartoon in the 336px square input, we resize and pad. At training time, we perform data augmentations on the image, including: random horizontal flipping, random color jittering, and random grayscaling.
