<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Scene/caption</th>
<th>Our opinion re: annotator decision</th>
<th>Human-authored explanation</th>
<th>Machine-authored explanation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Two teachers walking through a hallway of an elementary school while the children walk on the ceilings and walls. <em>Caption: Back in my day, kids had a little respect for the law of gravity.</em></td>
<td><em>Disagree:</em> the machine caption starts off well, but concludes with a number of non-sequiturs. Perhaps the annotators only skim the later parts of a long explanation.</td>
<td>(1/3) Normally “respecting laws” are human-written laws — but here, the kids have somehow opted-out of respecting physical laws of gravity, which means they can walk on walls/ceilings.</td>
<td>(2/3) The kids in this school are violating the laws of physics by walking on the walls and ceiling. The teachers is complaining that kids used to respect gravity, but now they don’t. This is a funny complaint because whether or not kids respect gravity probably depends on the teacher’s training, not whether they were a kid in the past.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>A doctor is performing a physical examination on Superman. <em>Caption: They think now kryptonite is actually good for you, in small doses.</em></td>
<td><em>Disagree:</em> Both are okay, but the human-authored explanation is more specific in referencing the appropriate cultural phenomenon, and the machine-generated one hallucinates that kryptonite is medicinally helpful.</td>
<td>(1/3) A joke about modern medical findings sometimes being counter-intuitive: some studies claim to show that things harmful in big quantities like alcohol or chocolate are good in small doses. But here, the thing that’s bad for superman in large doses is kryptonite: it’s a funny parallel to the other studies, and funny to think that scientists are studying kryptonite’s potential positive impacts.</td>
<td>(2/3) Kryptonite is a material that causes superman to become weak; however, the doctor is suggesting that kryptonite is good for him in small doses. This is funny because, while kryptonite might be helpful medicinally, it’s difficult to explain how small doses of something that kills superman could possibly be helpful.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3 people are going to therapy in a 3-tiered bunk-bed. <em>Caption: And how do you feel about how she feels about how he feels?</em></td>
<td><em>Disagree:</em> The machine caption omits the oddity of having three patients involved in what appears to be couples therapy. Nor is there wordplay involved.</td>
<td>(1/3) Couples therapy is already complex – pairs of people may have feelings about their partner’s feelings. Here, the joke is that if three people were getting therapy together, things would get even more complicated and meta, i.e., person 1 could feel strongly about person 2’s feelings about person 3 (and any permutation of such). It’s funny to think that these three would be so closely intertwined such that this meta-therapy could be a helpful exercise.</td>
<td>(2/3) A wordplay joke about feelings — a therapist might ask a question like: “how do you feel about what happened with your brother?”; in this case, the question is expanded to include the feelings of each party, e.g., “how do you feel about how he feels about what happened with your brother?”; this is a very complicated/deeper concern that requires a lot of reflection.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>A board meeting is happening in an office, but the employees are birds. <em>Caption: We have to stop eating the seed money.</em></td>
<td><em>Agree:</em> the machine explanation is probably better.</td>
<td>(0/3) Seed money is cash provided to a startup company (like the ones the birds are running); but, the play on words implies that the birds spent the seed money literally on seeds to eat, because birds eat seeds.</td>
<td>(3/3) A play on the phrase “seed money” — in the investment world, “seed money” refers to the initial capital that is invested into a startup company. But here, “seed money” refers to bird seed that these birds might eat: the joke is that they need to stop eating bird seed because it’s causing them not to be able to afford investments like a real office/chair/table.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>A stack of cars with drivers in them. The driver on the topmost car is leaning out of the window yelling to the drivers below. <em>Caption: I hope this guy Knievel knows what he’s doing.</em></td>
<td><em>Both have pros/cons:</em> The machine is more specific in referencing crashing and the implication for the drivers, but makes up “jumping the stack” meaning crashing.</td>
<td>(1/3) A reference to Evil Knievel, a stuntman who jumps motorcycles over cars. This pile of cars is going to be an obstacle in an Evil Knievel stunt, and the man in the top car is hoping that the stuntman coordinating this both knows how to jump over and also how to get the drivers out of this precarious situation.</td>
<td>(2/3) A reference to Evel Knievel, a famous stunt man that jumped cars and other objects. This is a joke about him jumping cars, but because the cars are stacked precariously, it’s a reference to Evel Knievel “jumping the stack”, i.e., crashing, which would be a bad outcome for the drivers.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>A person wearing boxing gloves is attempting to play a piano on a stage. <em>Caption: I could have been a conductor.</em></td>
<td><em>Both bad:</em> the human caption gives a better mechanical explanation, but both miss that the caption is a play on a quote from “On the Waterfront” (1954), “I coulda been a contender.”</td>
<td>(1/3) It would be mechanically difficult to play a piano with boxing gloves because the keys are too small. if this person must wear boxing gloves and still wants to do music, they humorously reason that they should be a conductor — it would be easier for them to hold the conductor batons vs. play piano keys.</td>
<td>(2/3) A joke about Muhammad Ali’s skill as a boxer, which sometimes takes a metaphorical meaning when referring to his boxing career. Here, the boxer is playing the piano, and is presumably not very good at it. But, the joke is that, if he wasn’t a boxer, he could have been a conductor, which requires a high level of skill. It’s funny in part because it’s not clear why he would have not been a boxer.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>A father and a child are standing in an office building looking out the window onto a giant woman straddling a nearby building. <em>Caption: Son, we finally attracted the fifty-foot-and-over demographic!</em></td>
<td><em>Both bad:</em> The human-authored explanation misses the direct reference to the movie “Attack of the 50-Foot-Woman” (1958), and the machine focuses on non-sequiturs like age 18/viewers/etc.</td>
<td>(1/3) A play on the phrase “fifty and over demographic” — this phrase would usually refer to the group of people who are aged 50 or older, and would be of interest to people running businesses (like the father and son pictured) as a marketing target. But instead of the age 50+ demographic, they have attracted the height-of-fifty-foot+ demographic, of which this giant woman is a member.</td>
<td>(2/3) A play on the term “fifty-foot-and-over” and “over 18” — in the media, advertisers sometimes say that they want to attract 18+ year old viewers to their product, because 18 is the legal age of consent, and thus, to attract 18+ year olds, they will say they want to attract viewers “over 18”. But here, the company is trying to attract viewers “50-feet-and-over” — the company is trying to attract the titular Attack of the 50-Foot-Woman (who is, indeed, over 50-feet-tall).</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Figure 15: Examples of the small number of cases (16/131) where the machine-generated caption (fine-tuned GPT-3 175B) was preferred to the human-authored explanation by at least 2/3 annotators.
