## Post-production checking

To improve the standard of the jokes slightly, some simple checks are made on the final form. The first is that none of the lexemes used to build the question and punchline are accidentally identical; the second is that the lexemes used to build the nonsense noun phrase and its meaning, do not build a *genuine* common noun phrase.

## The evaluation procedure

An informal evaluation of JAPE-1 was carried out, with three stages: *data acquisition, common knowledge judging* and *joke judging*. During the data acquisition stage, volunteers unfamiliar with JAPE-1 were asked to make lexical entries for a set of words given to them. These definitions were then sifted by a “common knowledge judge” (simply to check for errors and excessively obscure suggestions), entered into JAPE-1’s lexicon, and a substantial set of jokes were produced. A different group of volunteers then gave verdicts, both quantitative and qualitative, on these jokes. The use of volunteers to write lexical entries was a way of making the testing slightly more rigorous. We did not have access to a suitable large lexicon, but if we had hand-crafted the entries ourselves there would have been the risk of bias (i.e. humour-oriented information) creeping in.

JAPE-1 produced a set of 188 jokes in near-surface form, which were distributed in batches to 14 judges, who gave the jokes scores on a scale from 0 (“Not a joke. Doesn’t make any sense.”) to 5 (“Really good”). They were also asked for qualitative information, such as how the jokes might be improved, and if they had heard any of the jokes before.

This testing was *not* meant to be statistically rigorous. However, when it comes to analyzing the data, this lack of rigour causes some problems. Because there were so few jokes and joke judges, the scores are not statistically significant. Moreover, there was no control group of jokes. We suspect that jokes of this genre are not very funny even when they are produced by humans; however, we do not know how human-produced jokes would fare if judged in the same way JAPE-1’s jokes were, so it is difficult to make the comparison. Ideally, with hindsight, JAPE-1’s jokes would then have been mixed with similar jokes (from (?), for example), and then all the jokes would have been judged by a group of schoolchildren, who would be less likely to have heard the jokes before and more likely to appreciate them.

The results of the testing are summarised in Figure 7. The average point score for all the jokes JAPE-1 produced from the lexical data provided by volunteers is 1.5 points, over a total of 188 jokes. Most of the jokes were given a score of 1. Interestingly, all of the nine jokes that were given the maximum score of five by one judge, were given low scores by the other judge — three got zeroes, three got ones, and three got twos. Overall, the current version of JAPE-1 produced, according to the scores the judges gave, “jokes, but pathetic ones”.

[Figure: bar chart showing number of jokes by points scored. Y-axis labelled “NUMBER OF JOKES” with ticks 0, 12.5, 25, 37.5, 50, 62.5. X-axis labelled “POINTS SCORED” with categories 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; tallest bar at 1.]

Figure 7: The point distribution over all the output

The top end of the output are definitely of Crack-a-Joke book quality, and some (according to the judges) existed already as jokes, including:

What do you call a murderer that has fibre? *A cereal killer.*  
What kind of tree can you wear? *A fir coat.*  
What kind of rain brings presents? *A bridal shower.*  
What do you call a good-looking taxi? *A handsome cab.*  
What do you call a perforated relic? *A holey grail.*  
What kind of pig can you ignore at a party? *A wild bore.*  
What kind of emotion has bits? *A love byte.*

It was clear from the evaluation that some schemata and templates tended to produce better jokes than others. For example, the *use_syn* template produced several texts that were judged to be non-jokes, such as:

What do you use to hit a waiting line? *A pool queue.*

The problem with this template is probably that it uses the definition constructed by the schema inappropriately. The schema-generated definition is ‘nonsense’, in that it describes something that doesn’t exist; nonetheless, the word order of the punchline does contain some semantic information (i.e. which of its words
