**Syllable substitution:** Puns using this strategy confuse a syllable (or syllables) in a word with a similar- or identical-sounding word. For example:

What do short-sighted ghosts wear? *Spooktacles.* (?)

**Word substitution:** Word substitution is very similar to syllable substitution. In this strategy, an entire word is confused with another similar- or identical-sounding word. For example:

How do you make gold soup? *Put fourteen carrots in it.* (?)

**Metathesis:** Metathesis is quite different from syllable or word substitution. Also known as *spoonerism*, it uses a reversal of sounds and words to suggest (wrongly) a similarity in meaning between two semantically-distinct phrases. For example:

What’s the difference between a very short witch and a deer running from hunters? *One’s a stunted hag and the other’s a hunted stag.* (?)

All three of the above-described types of pun are potentially tractable for detailed formalisation and hence computer generation. We chose to generate only word-substitution puns, simply because lists of phonologically identical words (*homonyms*) are readily available, whereas the other two types require some kind of subword comparison. In particular, the class of jokes which we chose to generate all: use word substitution; have the substituted word in the *punchline* of the joke, rather than the question; and substitute a *homonym* for a word in a *common noun phrase* (cf. the “spirit level” riddle cited earlier). These restrictions are simply to reduce the scope of the research even further, so that the chosen subset of jokes can be covered in a comprehensive, rigorous manner. We believe that our basic model, with some straightforward extensions, is general enough to cover other forms.

## Symbolic descriptions

Our analysis of word-substitution riddles is based (semi-formally) on the following essential items, related as shown in Figure 1:

[Figure: Diagram of the relationships between parts of a pun. Ovals labeled “fake meaning”, “fake word/phrase”, “meaning 1”, “meaning 2”, “valid word/phrase 1”, and “valid word 2”; arrows labeled “constructs” and “meaning_of”.]

Figure 1: The relationships between parts of a pun

- a valid English word/phrase
- the meaning of the word/phrase
- a shorter word, phonologically similar to part of the word/phrase
- the meaning of the shorter word
- a fake word/phrase, made by substituting the shorter word into the word/phrase
- the meaning of the fake word/phrase, made by combining the meanings of the original word/phrase and the shorter word.

At this point, it is important to distinguish between the mechanism for building the *meaning* of the fake word/phrase, and the mechanism that uses that meaning to build a question with the word/phrase as an answer. Consider the joke:

What do you give an elephant that’s exhausted? *Trunkquillizers.* (?)

In this joke, the word “trunk”, which is phonologically similar to the syllable “tranq”, is substituted into the valid English word “tranquillizer”. The resulting fake word “trunkquillizer” is given a meaning, referred to in the question part of the riddle, which is some combination of the meanings of “trunk” and “tranquillizer” (in this case, a tranquillizer for elephants). The following questions use the same meaning for ‘trunkquillizer’, but refer to that meaning in different ways:

- What do you use to sedate an elephant?
- What do you call elephant sedatives?
- What kind of medicine do you give to a stressed-out elephant?

On the other hand, these questions are all put together in the same way, but from different constructed meanings:

- What do you use to sedate an elephant?
- What do you use to sedate a piece of luggage?
- What do you use to medicate a nose?

We have adopted the term *schema* for the symbolic description of the underlying configuration of meanings and words, and *template* for the textual patterns used to construct a question-answer pair.

## Lexicon

Our minimal assumptions about the structure of the lexicon are as follows. There is a (finite) set of *lexemes*. A lexeme is an abstract entity, roughly corresponding to a meaning of a word or phrase. Each lexeme has exactly one entry in the lexicon, so if a word has two meanings, it will have two corresponding lexemes. Each lexeme may have some *properties* which are true of it (e.g. being a noun), and there are a number of possible
