# An implemented model of punning riddles

Kim Binsted$^{*}$ and Graeme Ritchie  
Department of Artificial Intelligence  
University of Edinburgh  
Edinburgh, Scotland EH1 1HN  
kimb@aisb.ed.ac.uk graeme@aisb.ed.ac.uk

## Abstract

In this paper, we discuss a model of simple question-answer punning, implemented in a program, JAPE-1, which generates riddles from humour-independent lexical entries. The model uses two main types of structure: *schemata*, which determine the relationships between key words in a joke, and *templates*, which produce the surface form of the joke. JAPE-1 succeeds in generating pieces of text that are recognizably jokes, but some of them are not very good jokes. We mention some potential improvements and extensions, including post-production heuristics for ordering the jokes according to quality.

## Humour and artificial intelligence

If a suitable goal for AI research is to get a computer to do “. . . a task which, if done by a human, requires intelligence to perform,” (?), then the production of humorous texts, including jokes and riddles, is a fit topic for AI research. As well as probing some intriguing aspects of the notion of “intelligence”, it has the methodological advantage (unlike, say, computer art) of leading to more directly falsifiable theories: the resulting humorous artefacts can be tested on human subjects.

Although no computationally tractable model of humour as a whole has yet been developed (see (?) for a general theory of verbal humour, and (?) for a comprehensive survey), we believe that by tackling a very limited and linguistically-based set of phenomena, it is realistic to start developing a formal symbolic account.

One very common form of humour is the question-answer joke, or riddle. Most of these jokes (e.g. almost a third of the riddles in the Crack-a-Joke Book (?)) are based on some form of pun. For example:

What do you use to flatten a ghost? *A spirit level.*  
(?)

This riddle is of a general sort which is of particular interest for a number of reasons. The linguistics of riddles has been investigated before (e.g. (?)). Also, there is a large corpus of riddles to examine: books such as (?) record them by the thousand. Finally, riddles exhibit more regular structures and mechanisms than some other forms of humour.

We have devised a formal model of the punning mechanisms underlying some subclasses of riddle, and have implemented a computer program which uses these symbolic rules and structures to construct punning riddles from a humour-independent (i.e. linguistically general) lexicon. An informal evaluation of the performance of this program suggests that its output is not significantly worse than that produced by human composers of such riddles.

## Punning riddles

Pepicello and Green (?) describe the various strategies incorporated in riddles. They hold the common view that humour is closely related to ambiguity, whether it be linguistic (such as the phonological ambiguity in a punning riddle) or contextual (such as riddles that manipulate social conventions to confuse the listener). What the linguistic strategies have in common is that they ask the “riddlee” to accept a similarity on a phonological, morphological, or syntactic level as a point of *semantic* comparison, and thus get fooled (cf. “iconism” (?)). Riddles of this type are known as *puns*.

We decided to select a subset of riddles which displayed regularities at the level of semantic, or logical, structure, and whose structures could be described in fairly conventional linguistic terms (simple lexical relations). As a sample of existing riddles, we studied “The Crack-a-Joke Book” (?), a collection of jokes chosen by British children. These riddles are simple, and their humour generally arises from their punning nature, rather than their subject matter. This sample does not represent sophisticated adult humour, but it suffices for an initial exploration.

There are three main strategies used in puns to exploit phonological ambiguity: *syllable substitution*, *word substitution*, and *metathesis*. This is not to say that other strategies do not exist; however, none were found among the large number of punning jokes examined.

\*Thanks are due to Canada Student Loans, the Overseas Research Students Scheme, and the St Andrew’s Society of Washington, DC, for their financial support.  
Copyright © 2018, American Association for Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
