is the object and which word describes that object), and it is important for the question to reflect that information. A more appropriate template, *class_has_rev*, produced this joke:

What kind of line has sixteen balls? *A pool queue.*

which the judges gave an average of two points.

Another problem was that the definitions provided by the volunteers were often too general for our purposes. For example, the entry for the word “hanger” gave its class as device, producing jokes like:

What kind of device has wings? *An aeroplane hanger.*

which scored half a point.

## Conclusions

This evaluation has accomplished two things. It has shown that JAPE-1 can produce pieces of text that are recognizably jokes (if not very good ones) from a relatively unbiased lexicon. More importantly, it has suggested some ways that JAPE-1 could be improved:

- The description of the lexicon could be made more precise, so that it is easier for people unfamiliar with JAPE-1 to make appropriate entries. Moreover, multiple versions of an entry could be compared for ‘common knowledge’, and that common knowledge entered in the lexicon.
- More slots could be added to the lexicon, allowing the person entering words to specify what a thing is made of, what it uses, and/or what it is part of.
- New, more detailed templates could be added, such as ones which would allow more complex punchlines.
- Templates and schemata that give consistently poor results could be removed.
- The remaining templates could be adjusted so that they use the lexical data more gracefully, by providing the right amount of information in the question part of the riddle.
- Schema-template links that give consistently poor results could be removed.
- JAPE-1 could be extended to handle other joke types, such as simple spoonerisms and sub-word puns.

If even the simplest of the trimming and ordering heuristics described above were implemented, JAPE-1’s output would be restricted to good-quality punning riddles. Although there is certainly room for improvement in JAPE-1’s performance, it does produce recognizable jokes in accordance with a model of punning riddles, which has not been done successfully by any other program we know of. In that, it is a success.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to thank Salvatore Attardo for letting us have access to his unpublished work, and for his comments on the research reported here.
