(4.4) **_Why was the physics book sad? Because it had so many formulas to memorize and so few friends to share them with. (3)_**

The examples Ex. 1 to Ex. 4 illustrate how ChatGPT starts from replicated joke examples and modifies them to original but rather invalid responses. If a user openly asks for a pun, most responses consist of replicated puns, and comparably few examples are modified jokes or original content. However, the modification of existing jokes can be forced to happen, e.g., by specifying the prompt. The following examples, Ex. 5, Ex. 6, and Ex. 7, additionally illustrate how ChatGPT is able to deploy the learned joke structure to create original content. These examples were not part of the initial 1008 samples but were created manually to illustrate that behavior.

**Example 5.** ChatGPT is able to fit different scenarios in the question-answer joke template.

**P:** Can you tell me a joke about cats?

(5.1) *Why did the cat put his paw in the air? Because he wanted to catch a snowflake!*

The scenario of a cat catching a snowflake is a realistic picture. The joke structure is similar to the reproduced puns. Nevertheless, the joke is missing its comic element and would most likely not work as a joke in a real conversation.

**Example 6.** In some cases, ChatGPT’s modifications can work quite well.

**P:** Tell me a joke about physics students!

(6.1) *Why did the physics student break up with their lab partner? There was no chemistry!*

ChatGPT’s output is most likely based on another existing joke that comes with the question: *"Why did the physics teacher break up with the biology teacher?"*. Although the punch line in Item 6.1 is not as sharp as in the original joke, it still holds the wordplay and is partly valid as a joke.

**Example 7.** ChatGPT can adapt to a wide variety of specific contexts, such as the field of ML. However, the further away the content is from the known jokes, the more likely it seems to lack any comic element.

**P:** Tell me a joke about machine learning!

(7.1) *Why did the machine learning algorithm cross the road? To get to the other side of the training data set!*

In Item 7.1, we observe how highly specific vocabulary is integrated into the previously seen chicken pun format. Repeating the same prompt yielded different outputs, which are all in the same textual structure, but with different content.

(7.2) *Why was the machine learning algorithm always so pessimistic? Because it had a negative bias!*

(7.3) *Why did the neural network go to therapy? Because it was suffering from overfitting!*

The samples are quite reasonable in terms of content, as, for instance, biases in ML systems. On top of that, they even contain basic implementations of wordplays, e.g., the double meaning of *suffering* in the context of disorders and in the context of machine learning overfitting. Nevertheless, the puns lack the last nuances to constitute an actually valid joke.

## 4.2 Joke Explanation

We asked ChatGPT to explain each of the 25 top jokes, which mostly resulted in a valid explanation. Wordplays and double meanings were identified and pointed out correctly, such as in Ex. 8.

**Example 8.** ChatGPT correctly names the double meaning of the term "problems" as the comic element of the pun and explains both meanings.

**P:** Can you explain why this joke is funny? Why was the math book sad? Because it had too many problems.

(8.1) *This joke is funny because it’s a play on words. The word "problems" is being used in two different ways: as a mathematical term (referring to mathematical exercises) and as an idiomatic expression (referring to difficulties or challenges in life). [...]*

For 23 of 25 valid jokes, the explanations were accurate and reasonable. ChatGPT did not only explain direct but also acoustic double meanings correctly, such as "too tired" and "two-tired" or "peeling" and "feeling." A special case is the explanation of the chicken-anti-joke and its modifications that were already discussed in Ex. 2.
