**Example 9.** The chicken joke is a famous anti-joke. This common knowledge is reflected in the model and the joke, therefore, explained correctly.

**P:** Can you explain why this joke is funny:  
Why did the chicken cross the road? To get to the other side.

(9.1) *The humor in this joke lies in the unexpected and straightforward punchline. When someone hears the setup of the joke, they are likely expecting a clever or surprising answer to why the chicken crossed the road. However, the punchline is just a simple and obvious explanation - the chicken crossed the road to get to the other side.  
The joke is an example of an "anti-joke," a type of joke that intentionally avoids a typical punchline and instead delivers a mundane or literal answer. In this case, the answer is so obvious that it’s unexpected and therefore amusing to many people.*

**Example 10.** However, for the similarly popular variations of the chicken joke, ChatGPT fails to recognize this connection. It only focuses on the content of the given sample and creates an abstruse explanation:

**P:** Can you explain why this joke is funny:  
Why did the chicken cross the playground?  
To get to the other slide.

(10.1) *The joke is a play on words, using the double meaning of the word "slide". In a playground, there are often two types of slides - a playground slide that children can slide down and a baseball slide, which is a sliding technique used in baseball. [...]*

This example illustrates how ChatGPT tries to apply an approved scheme of reasoning to a situation where it is not suitable.

**Example 11.** ChatGPT does not only come up with a convincing explanation for valid jokes but as well for invalid ones. This sample was one of the few outputs among the generated 1008 jokes from Sec. 4.1 that were considered invalid. It only occurred once.

**P** *Can you explain why this joke is funny:*  
*Why did the cookie go to the gym?*  
*To get a-cookie-dized.*

(11.1) *The joke is a play on words. "To get "a-cookie-dized" is a pun on the phrase "to get categorized", with "cookie" being substituted for "categorized." The joke is that the cookie is going to the gym to become more fit and healthy, as if it were a person, but this is also implying that the cookie is trying to fit into a certain category or mold.*

The joke itself is hard to understand, and the explanation even harder. ChatGPT’s explanation does not reveal any humorous elements. The highlighted wordplay makes no sense from a human perspective. The system seems unable to contradict that this is not a funny joke or to admit that it cannot identify any pun. Instead, it creates a fictional but convincing-sounding explanation. Further examples can be found in the Appendix in Sec. C.

### 4.3 Joke Detection

The results of Sec. 4.2 indicate that ChatGPT will most likely not object if a presented sample is not valid, leading to the question of whether the system is even *able* to differentiate jokes from not-funny but joke-like samples. Therefore, we built five different conditions (see Fig. 2) of each joke, including the valid jokes themselves, and asked the system to classify each sample.

ChatGPT’s responses were diverse and contained specifics regarding sentence structure or stylistic elements. In terms of joke classification, however, three categories of responses stood out:

- **[P] Joke:** The sample is immediately and explicitly recognized as a joke or a pun.
- **[H] Potentially funny:** The humorous potential of the sentence is mentioned secondary.
- **[N] No Joke:** The sample is neither classified as a joke or pun, nor is its comic potential mentioned in the response.

Fig. 2 illustrates the modification steps and the overall results of this task. A more detailed description of the categories, as well as all considered modifications and their classification, are given in the Appendix in Sec. D.

All original 25 jokes were clearly classified as a joke. This is not much surprising since each of the presented samples was output by ChatGPT as an exemplary joke in an earlier task. However, it serves as an affirmation of the validity of this task and of ChatGPT’s confidence in reasoning. Two of the
