arXiv:2306.04563v1 [cs.AI] 7 Jun 2023

# ChatGPT is fun, but it is not funny!  
# Humor is still challenging Large Language Models

**Sophie Jentzsch**$^{1}$ and **Kristian Kersting**$^{2,3,4}$  
$^{1}$Institute for Software Technology, German Aerospace Center (DLR), Cologne, Germany  
$^{2}$Computer Science Department, Technical University Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany  
$^{3}$Centre for Cognitive Science, TU Darmstadt  
$^{4}$Hessian Center for AI (hessian.AI)  
sophie.jentzsch@dlr.de, kersting@cs.tu-darmstadt.de

## Abstract

Humor is a central aspect of human communication that has not been solved for artificial agents so far. Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly able to capture implicit and contextual information. Especially, OpenAI’s ChatGPT recently gained immense public attention. The GPT3-based model almost seems to communicate on a human level and can even tell jokes. Humor is an essential component of human communication. But is ChatGPT really funny?

We put ChatGPT’s sense of humor to the test. In a series of exploratory experiments around jokes, i.e., generation, explanation, and detection, we seek to understand ChatGPT’s capability to grasp and reproduce human humor. Since the model itself is not accessible, we applied prompt-based experiments.

Our empirical evidence indicates that jokes are not hard-coded but mostly also not newly generated by the model. Over 90% of 1008 generated jokes were the same 25 jokes. The system accurately explains valid jokes but also comes up with fictional explanations for invalid jokes. Joke-typical characteristics can mislead ChatGPT in the classification of jokes. ChatGPT has not solved computational humor yet but it can be a big leap toward “funny” machines.

[Figure: Chat illustration showing a human user message, “Tell me a joke, please!”, and a chatbot response, “Sure, here's a joke for you: Why don't scientists trust atoms? Because they make up everything!” Human and robot icons are shown.]

Figure 1: Exemplary illustration of a conversation between a human user and an artificial chatbot. The joke is a true response to the presented prompt by ChatGPT.

## 1 Introduction

For humans, humor plays a central role in forming relationships and can enhance performance and motivation [16]. It is a powerful instrument to affect emotion and guide attention [14]. Thus, a computational sense of humor holds the potential to massively boost human-computer interaction (HCI). Unfortunately, although computational humor is a longstanding research domain [26], the developed machines are far from "funny." This problem is even considered to be AI-complete [22].

Continuous advances and recent breakthroughs in machine learning (ML), however, lead to an ever-increasing panoply of applications [e.g., 15, 3] and likewise open new opportunities for natural language processing (NLP). Transformer-based large language models (LLMs) increasingly capture and reflect implicit information, such as stereotypes [7], moral [6], and humor [5, 25]. Humor is often implicit and carried by subtle details. Thus these novel qualities of LLMs give reason to hope for new advances in artificial humor.

Most recently, OpenAI’s ChatGPT gained immense attention for its unprecedented capabilities. Users can interact with the model via public chat API in a conversation-like course. The system is able to answer a huge variety of questions while taking the previous contextual conversation into consideration. In fact, it can even tell jokes, as displayed in Fig. 1. ChatGPT is fun and almost appears to interact on a human-like level. Yet, when interacting with the model, users may quickly get a glimpse of its limitations. Although ChatGPT generates text in almost error-free English, grammatical glitches and content-related mistakes occur. In the preceding exploration, we noticed that ChatGPT is likely to repeat the exact same jokes frequently. Moreover, the provided jokes were strikingly correct and sophisticated. These observations led to the hypothesis that output jokes are not originally generated by the model. Instead, they seem
