T5. _Why did the cookie go to the doctor?_  
_Because it was feeling crumbly._ (79)

The number of occurrences among these examples varies largely. While the top four jokes occurred over a hundred times each, the jokes T13 to T25 occurred less than 20 times. All 25 puns together sum up to about 90% of the gathered puns, but the top four examples alone make more than 50%. This observation contradicts our initial hypothesis: In the case of randomly picking from a predefined list, we would expect the occurrence of samples to be more equally distributed. Nevertheless, the small number of repeating samples indicates a limited versatility in ChatGPT’s response pattern.

All of the top 25 samples are existing jokes. They are included in many different text sources, e.g., they can immediately be found in the exact same wording in an ordinary internet search. Therefore, these examples cannot be considered original creations of ChatGPT.

Of 1008 samples, 909 were identical to one of the top 25 jokes. The remaining 99 samples, however, did not necessarily contain new content. About half of them were again modifications of the top jokes, as illustrated by the examples Ex. 2, Ex. 3, and Ex. 4. While some of the modified puns still made sense and mostly just replaced parts of the original joke with semantically similar elements, others lost their conclusiveness. Thus, although the top 25 joke samples rather appear to be replicated than originally generated, there seems to be original content in the remaining samples.

**Example 2.** Item 2.1 is the famous chicken joke - a so-called anti-joke: It creates expectations with its joke-typical build-up but omits the reliving punch line. Besides that original joke, many variations exist with the chicken in another situation but a similar-sounding anti-pun. Item 2.2 is such a variation and is even more represented in the set of generated samples than in the original joke. Items 2.3, 2.4, and 2.5 are not covered by the top 25 jokes and can be considered modifications by ChatGPT, e.g., by replacing "chicken" in Item 2.2 with a semantically similar concept, i.e., "duck," to create Item 2.5.

(2.1) _Why did the chicken cross the road?_  
_To get to the other side._ (7)

(2.2) _Why did the chicken cross the playground?_  
_To get to the other slide._ (33)

(2.3) _Why did the duck cross the road?_  
_To get to the other pond._ (2)

(2.4) _Why did the chicken wear a tuxedo?_  
_Because it was a formal occasion._ (1)

(2.5) _Why did the duck cross the playground?_  
_To get to the other slide._ (1)

For anti-jokes, it is especially hard to tell whether a sample is valid, as they do not compute in the classical sense. Yet, it is safe to say that the first two items are already existing jokes, and the latter ones are rather rare or even generated by ChatGPT.

**Example 3.** While it is debatable whether we observe that behavior in Ex. 1, Ex 2. clearly illustrates how ChatGPT mixes up elements from different valid jokes and, by that means, creates new samples. Item 3.1 is one of the top 25 jokes. The Items 3.2 and 3.3 were in the remaining 99 not-grouped jokes.

(3.1) _Why did the man put his money in the freezer? He wanted cold hard cash._ (13)

(3.2) _Why did the man put his watch in the blender? He wanted to make time fly._ (2)

(3.3) _Why did the man put his money in the blender? He wanted to make time fly._ (2)

Item 3.1 and Item 3.2 are valid replicated jokes, and Item 3.3 is an invalid combination of those.

**Example 4.** One of the most frequent jokes in the output list is the math book pun, Item 4.1. There were numerous valid modifications of that joke with minor grammatical variations, such as Item 4.2. It remains unclear whether all variations are replicated from training data sources or only item 4.1 and the others were modifications by ChatGPT. In Item 4.3, the "math book" is replaced by a "physics book." This change is unnecessary and dulls the punch line, but the joke is still valid, as also physics books are concerned with mathematical problems. Item 4.4, in contrast, rather appears as an insult than a joke. There is no wordplay included. ChatGPT exceeds the joke template and generates an invalid output.

(4.1) _Why was the math book sad?_  
_Because it had too many problems._ (92)

(4.2) _Why did the math book look so mad?_  
_Because it had too many problems._ (9)

(4.3) _Why was the **physics** book sad?_  
_Because it had so many problems._ (1)
