modification sets, namely modification *A* and modification *C*, show mixed classifications. These are the two conditions where one of the three characteristics was removed, and the other two remained unchanged. In both cases, the classifications of jokes are relatively equally divided into *jokes* and *no jokes*, with a slight tendency to the latter. Only a few samples were categorized as *potentially humorous*. For the remaining modification sets, i.e., set *B* and set *D*, each with two characteristics removed, all included samples were classified as *no joke*. None of the 25 samples per set was classified as *joke* or *potentially humorous*.

Thus, one single joke characteristic alone is not sufficient for ChatGPT to classify a sample as a joke. This applies to both a joke-typical structure and a joke-typical topic. In the case of two joke characteristics, the classification results were mixed, and all samples with three joke characteristics were classified as a joke.

## 5 Discussion

We aimed to understand ChatGPT’s ability to capture and reflect humor. The results from three prompt-based tasks show implications regarding the system’s inner workings.

**Joke Generation.** More than 90% of the generated samples were the same 25 jokes. This recurrence supports the initial impression that jokes are not originally generated. Presumably, the most frequent instances are explicitly learned and memorized from the model training, e.g., in the RLHF step that substantially contributes to ChatGPT’s revolutionary capabilities. If and to what extent a generated output is reproduced from training data is a non-trivial question. If we get the opportunity to access further training details, we will test that subsequent hypothesis.

Nevertheless, we also observed jokes that were modified or generated by ChatGPT. This and the uneven distribution of output samples do not support the initial hypothesis of hard-coded jokes. ChatGPT generalizes characteristics of the learned top jokes, e.g., semantic format and wordplay puns, and can squeeze new topics into the known pattern. Although these are valid joke characteristics, it is quite a one-sided conception of jokes and even more of humor in general. Thus, ChatGPT understands this specific kind of joke quite well but fails to reflect a larger spectrum of humor.

**Joke Explanation.** The model is able to grasp and explain stylistic elements, such as personifications and wordplays, impressively well. Yet, there are obvious limitations: ChatGPT struggles to explain sequences that do not fit into the learned patterns. Further, it will not indicate when something is *not* funny or that it lacks a valid explanation. Instead, it comes up with a fictional but convincing-sounding explanation, which is a known issue with ChatGPT.

**Joke Detection.** We identified three main characteristics that generated jokes had in common, i.e., structure, wordplay, and topic. The presence of a single joke-characteristic, e.g., the question-answer template, is not sufficient for a sample to be wrongly classified as a joke. The fact that ChatGPT was not misled by such surface characteristics shows that there is indeed a certain understanding of humorous elements of jokes. With more joke characteristics, a sample is more likely to be classified as a joke.

Although ChatGPT’s jokes are not newly generated, this does not necessarily take away from the system’s capabilities. Even we humans do not invent new jokes on the fly but mostly tell previously heard and memorized puns. However, whether an artificial agent is able to *understand* what it learned is an exceptionally tough question and partly rather philosophical than technical.

In the present experiments, all prompts were posted in an empty, refreshed chat to avoid uncontrolled priming. But, clearly, context plays an important role in the perception of humor. ChatGPT is able to capture contextual information and adjust its responses accordingly to the preceding course of conversation. This is an intriguing capacity, which we would like to include in future investigations.

## 6 Conclusion

We test ChatGPT’s ability to recognize and reflect human humor. The model is able to correctly identify, reproduce, and explain puns that fit into the learned pattern, but it fails to meet puns of other kinds, resulting in a limited reflection of humor. Also, it cannot yet confidently create intentionally funny original content.

The observations of this study illustrate how ChatGPT rather learned a specific joke pattern instead of being able to be actually funny. Never-
