to be reproduced from the training data or maybe even hard coded in a predefined list.

As the system’s inner workings are not shared, we conducted a series of structured prompt-based experiments to learn about the system’s behavior and allow for inference regarding the generation process of ChatGPT’s output. Specifically, we aim to understand to what extent ChatGPT is able to capture human humor by conducting a systematic prompt-based analysis.

The remainder of this paper is structured as follows: First, Sec. 2 discusses related research. The main contribution assembles three experimental conditions: Joke generation, joke explanation, and joke detection. While the overall approach is outlined in Sec. 3, the detailed conduction is explained together with the results of each experiment in Sec. 4.1, Sec. 4.2, and Sec. 4.3, respectively. We close by discussing implications and further research in Sec. 5 and conclude our work in Sec. 6.

**Terminology Disclaimer.** AI-related terminology tends to make use of analogies to human characteristics, such as *neural networks*, or the term artificial *intelligence* itself. Likewise, we use human-related terms in the discussion around conversational agents, which are supposed to mimic human behavior as accurately as possible, e.g., ChatGPT "*understands*" or "*explains*." Although we believe that these analogies describe the system’s behavior and its inner workings very well, they might be misleading. We would like to emphasize that the discussed AI models are not on a human level and, at best, constitute a simulation of the human mind. Whether AI can potentially ever *think* or *understand* in a conscious way is a philosophical question that is out of the scope of this investigation.

## 2 Related Work

Our work considers the intersection of two lines of research, namely LLMs and computational humor.

**Large Language Models.** NLP witnessed several leaps in the recent past. Only a few years ago, the introduction of transformer architectures in neural networks [21] enabled the development of contextualized models, such as BERT [9] or GPT [2]. These so-called large language models (LLMs) capture relations in the natural data and even reflect implicitly-included information, which can be both a risk [23] and a chance [17]. Either way, however, it is a prerequisite to solving computational humor.

OpenAI[^1] recently released ChatGPT, a GPT3.5-based LLM that is able to interact with users conversationally through a chat-like API. It is fine-tuned with *Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF)* [12] in three essential steps, including large-scale manual labeling and proximal policy optimization [18]. The result of this process is a model with unprecedented capabilities: It interacts in a conversational manner, i.e., it refers to the users’ prompt while also taking information from the preceding conversation into account. It is able to summarize information, generate new texts of all shapes, and even write program code. Nevertheless, there are still glitches and limitations, e.g., factual wrong information presented as valid.

**Computational Humor.** Computational humor is a small but active research area of NLP with the main streams *Humor Detection or Classification* [e.g., 8, 4], and *Humor Generation* [e.g., 19]. Although advances in ML and NLP transfer to computational humor, researchers highlight the great complexity of automated humor and the limitations of current endeavors [26, 24]. Humor is one of the few capabilities that seemed to be reserved for human individuals thus far, which is why it is even considered AI-complete [14, 22].

While decades of research in linguistics and psychology offer quite a few logic-based humor theories [e.g., 13, 27], the work in the context of artificial agents is predominantly data-driven. In these approaches, pretrained language models, such as ChatGPT, play a central role [10]. With their innovative capabilities, GPT-based models have the potential to open a new chapter of computational research.

## 3 Method

The presented experiments are grouped into three individual tasks, which are introduced in Sec. 3.1, Sec. 3.2, and Sec. 3.3. Implementation details and extended results are made available at GitHub[^2]. In all experiments, each prompt was conducted in a new empty conversation to avoid unwanted influence. To conduct a large number of prompts with OpenAI’s ChatGPT[^3] web service, there were certain obstacles to overcome. Since there was no official API available at the time, prompts were

[^1]: OpenAI, https://openai.com/

[^2]: Project repository: https://github.com/DLR-SC/JokeGPT-WASSA23

[^3]: ChatGPT user API at chat.openai.com/, Accessed: January-March 2023 (detailed dates in the Appendix)
