theless, in the generation, the explanation, and the identification of jokes, ChatGPT’s focus bears on content and meaning and not so much on superficial characteristics. These qualities can be exploited to boost computational humor applications. In comparison to previous LLMs, this can be considered a huge leap toward a general understanding of humor.

We plan to conduct similar tasks on newly released GPT4 models [11] and on equivalent open source models, such as LLaMa [20] and GPT-NeoX [1], to compare their capabilities regarding joke generation and understanding.

## Limitations

The present study comes with two major limitations. First, humor is highly subjective, and a valid and reliable evaluation is hard. Things can be perceived as funny for very different reasons - even for being particularly not funny, such as anti-jokes. Thus, when ChatGPT generates an odd joke about ML, one could even argue that ChatGPT has a sense of humor that is just different from ours. Also, humor is diverse in reality. The present investigation focuses on one specific form of humor, namely standalone jokes. There are more manifestations to consider, which would require a much more complex experimental setup.

Second, we cannot confidently trace back the outcome of the system or map it to specific input data. This is challenging for large data-driven models in general, but especially in this case, where we neither have access to the model itself nor to any training data or to the exemplary samples from RLHF. This prompt-based investigation creates a good intuition for the opportunities and limitations of ChatGPT. However, our observations and conclusions are solely based on system outputs. Further insights are needed to truly understand those relations.

## Ethics Statement

ChatGPT has achieved massive public attention and societal impact, as people use the tool for all different kinds of tasks. This impact comes with a huge responsibility and risks, such as discriminating biases or spreading misinformation.

However, the system fails to meet the requirements of open science, as data, training details, and model characteristics are kept private. We, therefore, consider our work an important contribution to understanding ChatGPT’s capabilities and objectively highlight its potential and limitations.

## Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for the helpful comments. This work benefited from the Hessian Ministry of Higher Education, and the Research and the Arts (HMWK) cluster projects “The Adaptive Mind” and “The Third Wave of AI”.

## References

[1] Sid Black, Stella Biderman, Eric Hallahan, Quentin Anthony, Leo Gao, Laurence Golding, Horace He, Connor Leahy, Kyle McDonell, Jason Phang, et al. 2022. Gpt-neox-20b: An open-source autoregressive language model. *Challenges & Perspectives in Creating Large Language Models*, page 95.

[2] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. *Advances in neural information processing systems*, 33:1877–1901.

[3] Giancarlo Frosio. 2023. The artificial creatives: The rise of combinatorial creativity from dall-e to gpt-3. *Handbook of Artificial Intelligence at Work: Interconnections and Policy Implications (Edward Elgar, Forthcoming).*

[4] Xu Guo, Han Yu, Boyang Li, Hao Wang, Pengwei Xing, Siwei Feng, Zaiqing Nie, and Chunyan Miao. 2022. Federated learning for personalized humor recognition. *ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology (TIST)*, 13(4):1–18.

[5] Md Kamrul Hasan, Sangwu Lee, Wasifur Rahman, Amir Zadeh, Rada Mihalcea, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Ehsan Hoque. 2021. Humor knowledge enriched transformer for understanding multimodal humor. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, volume 35, pages 12972–12980.

[6] Sophie Jentzsch, Patrick Schramowski, Constantin Rothkopf, and Kristian Kersting. 2019. Semantics derived automatically from language corpora contain human-like moral choices. In *Proceedings of the 2019 AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society*, pages 37–44.

[7] Sophie Jentzsch and Cigdem Turan. 2022. Gender bias in bert-measuring and analysing biases through sentiment rating in a realistic downstream classification task. In *Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Gender Bias in Natural Language Processing (GeBNLP)*, pages 184–199.
