[Figure: Diagram labeled “Original Joke:” showing modifications of the joke “Why did the scarecrow win an award? Because he was outstanding in his field.” Original classification: 100% joke, 0% potentially funny, 0% not a joke. Condition A “-wordplay”: “Why did the scarecrow win an award? Because he did very good work.” 42%, 5%, 53%. Condition B “-topic”: “Why did the scientist win an award? Because he was outstanding in his field.” 0%, 0%, 100%. Condition C “-structure”: “The scarecrow won an award because he was outstanding in his field.” 36%, 16%, 48%. Condition D “-wordplay”: “The scarecrow won an award because he did good work.” 0%, 0%, 100%.]

Figure 2: Modification of top jokes to create joke detection conditions. Below each condition, the percentages of samples are stated that were classified as joke (green), potentially funny (yellow), and not as a joke (red). In condition *(A) Minus Wordplay*, the comic element, and, therefore, the pun itself, was removed. For condition *(B) Minus Topic*, the joke-specific topic was additionally eliminated, e.g., by removing personifications. Condition *(C) Minus Structure* keeps the validity of the joke intact but changes the typical q-a-structure to a single-sentence-sample. From that, the comic element was additionally removed to create condition *(D) Minus Wordplay*.

entered with the help of a wrapper. The number of permitted prompts per hour was limited to 74. Moreover, ChatGPT was unavailable for longer periods due to exceeded capacity.

In this work, we differentiate between *originally generated* output, i.e., text composed by the model, and *replicated* output, i.e., text that is memorized from training data and played back by the system in the exact wording. *Modified* output is a mix of both, i.e., replicated text that is slightly altered, e.g., mixing the first half of one joke with the second half of another. We classify a joke as *valid* if it is funny from a human perspective. Accordingly, an *invalid* joke might be grammatically correct and even contain joke-like elements but fails to deliver a punch line. Naturally, as humor is subjective, these categories are always debatable. That being said, the distinction is comparably evident for the present examples, as we expound in the following chapters.

### 3.1 Joke Generation

To test if there is a limited number of reoccurring jokes, we analyze the deviation of output jokes. To this end, we asked ChatGPT to provide a joke a thousand times. We applied a predefined list of ten differently worded prompts, such as "*Can you tell me a joke, please?*" or "*I would love to hear a joke.*" The resulting observations are described in Sec. 4.1. We identified 25 repeating top jokes, which form the basis for the two subsequent tasks.

### 3.2 Joke Explanation

In the joke generation task, it was tested whether ChatGPT is able to generate valid jokes. However, this task does not necessarily reflect the system’s ability to *understand* humor, i.e., why the joke might be funny from a human perspective. To see to what extent the model captures these complex inner workings of jokes, we asked ChatGPT to explain each of the generated top 25 jokes. The prompt was always "*Can you explain why this joke is funny:* [joke]." The results from this second task are presented in Sec. 4.2.

### 3.3 Joke Detection

In the first two tasks, we identified certain criteria that (almost) all output joke samples had in common, i.e., structure, topic, and wordplay. These criteria seemed to be central joke characteristics for ChatGPT. To examine how close these cues are connected to ChatGPT’s conception of humor, we manually modified the top 25 jokes to eliminate one or multiple of the three criteria, resulting in four additional conditions for these jokes. We asked the system to classify each sample with the prompt "*What kind of sentence is that:* [sample]." ChatGPT’s response would then either include a categorization as a joke or not, as explained in Sec. 4.3. The three defined joke characteristics were defined as follows:

**Structure:** The generated jokes from Sec. 4.1 were in noteworthy similar semantic structure. Despite one sample, all 1008 generated jokes were in the same question-answer format.
