*playfulness of the wordplay and the unexpectedness  
of the punchline.*

## D Joke Detection

In the joke detection task, ChatGPT was openly asked to categorize different samples. The samples were in one of five conditions: The original joke, (A) with removed wordplay, (B) with a removed topic (which entails removed wordplay), (C) removed structure, and (D) removed structure & wordplay. In set C, the joke is still valid, as only the sentence structure but no component of the comic element is modified. All other modifications result in "unfunny" variations of the original joke. Thus, from a human perspective, the original jokes, as well as samples from set C, would probably be categorized as jokes, and samples from sets A, B, and D not.

All modifications that are considered in this investigation are listed in the remainder of this chapter, together with their classification. The original jokes are classified as a joke without exception and can be found in Sec. B. An overview of sample sets and results is displayed in Tab. 1.

The input prompt for each sample was "*What kind of sentence is that:* [sample]." ChatGPT’s responses were diverse and could contain individual explanations of sentence structure or stylistic elements. In terms of joke classification, however, responses could be grouped into three categories: Joke or pun, potentially humorous, and no joke. These classes are defined as follows.

**[P] Joke/ Pun** ChatGPT immediately classifies the sample as a joke or pun with a statement like *The sentence "[...]" is a joke or a play on words. It is a type of humor known as a "pun."* The response might contain information about the semantic structure, like *It is a question-and-answer format, where the question sets up the joke and the answer delivers the punchline.* In some cases, an explanation of the comic workings is also delivered, as in *The sentence is a joke or a pun, which is a form of wordplay that exploits multiple meanings of a term, or of similar-sounding words, for humorous effect. In this case, the word "[...]" is used in two ways: first, [...]; and second, [...], which creates a play on words.* Either way, the response clearly states the sample to be a joke or a pun, or both.

**[H] Potentially Humorous** In some responses, ChatGPT only mentions the humorous potential of the input statement secondary. It does not immediately label the sample to be a joke or pun, e.g., *The sentence "[...]" is a declarative sentence. It makes a statement or expresses a fact. In this case, the sentence describes an action taken by a chicken, which is unusual and may be intended to be **humorous or absurd**.* In some cases, the focus is on stylistic elements, such as in *The sentence is a personification, where an inanimate object is given human-like qualities and actions. [...], which are actions typically associated with humans.*

**[N] No Joke** ChatGPT does neither classify the sample as a joke or pun nor mention the comic potential of the input sentence. In this context, "no joke" does not mean that the sample is explicitly stated to be *not* a joke, but no similar quality is mentioned at all. Instead, the response focuses on grammatical structures or similar. Exemplary responses for this category are *The sentence "..." is a declarative sentence. It presents a statement or a fact and ends with a period* or *The sentence "[...]" is a dialogue or a conversation between two people where one person is asking a question and the other person is answering it.*

### D.1 Modification A - Minus Wordplay

To create these samples, the wordplay was removed from each original joke by minimally altering the wording. This modification also eliminates the comic element of jokes, which is they would most likely not be perceived as funny by humans.

[N] *Why did the scarecrow win an award?*  
*Because he did very good work.*

[N] *Why did the tomato turn red?*  
*Because it had a lot sun recently.*

[P] *Why was the math book sad?*  
*Because it was a rainy day.*

[P] *Why don’t scientists trust atoms?*  
*Because they tend to lie.*

[P] *Why did the cookie go to the doctor?*  
*Because it was feeling unwell.*

[P] *Why couldn’t the bicycle stand up by itself?*  
*Because it didn’t have racks.*

[H] *Why did the frog call his insurance company?*  
*He had a scratch in his car.*

[N] *Why was the computer cold?*  
*Because the heater was broken.*
