**Comic element:** In jokes, there is usually a stylistic element that creates comic momentum. ChatGPT’s generated jokes exclusively contained wordplay puns, e.g., the double meaning of one word.

**Topic** Joke scenarios tend to be bizarre and not close to reality. Not always, but often they contain personifications of objects, i.e., protagonists can be computers or bananas.

To determine the impact of these characteristics on the classification result, we compared the original top 25 jokes to samples with one or multiple of these characteristics removed. The considered jokes were modified manually as described in Fig. 2 to create alternative samples that were semantically as similar as possible. The comprehensive sets of samples and their classification can be found in the Appendix in Sec D. The sets were created as follows.

In the first modification $A$, the wordplay was removed from the joke (*minus wordplay*). To achieve that, the term(s) that form(s) the center of the pun were replaced by a wording with comparable primary meaning but without double meaning. As a side effect, this step removes the comic element and therefore destroys the pun. The joke would not be perceived as funny from a human perspective. If the jokes contained a joke-like topic, e.g., an award-winning scarecrow, this was removed in a second step (*minus topic*) by replacing it with an everyday entity, e.g., a scientist, to achieve modification $B$. In case the original sample did not contain an unrealistic joke-specific topic, such as "*Why did the man put his money in the freezer?*", it was included in set $B$ and not $A$. Thus, samples of the set $A$ contained a joke topic but no comic element $(N = 19)$, and samples of the set $B$ included none of both $(N = 25)$.

Eliminating the question-answer format for modification $C$, i.e., *minus structure*, was straightforwardly possible for all 25 original jokes $(N = 25)$ by rewriting it in the format "[sentence one] *because* [sentence two]." In this case, the pun remained intact, and the joke was similarly funny. The original topic remained unchanged. Then, the comic element, i.e., the wordplay, was again removed to form set $D$ $(N = 25)$.

## 4 Results

With this design at hand, let us now turn to our empirical evidence gathered on joke generation, explanation, and detection.

### 4.1 Joke Generation

To test how rich the variety of ChatGPT’s jokes is, we asked it to tell a joke a thousand times. All responses were grammatically correct. Almost all outputs contained exactly one joke. Only the prompt *do you know any good jokes?* provoked multiple jokes, leading to 1008 responded jokes in total. Besides that, the variation of prompts did have any noticeable effect.

To extract the deviation of jokes in the set of responses, similar samples were grouped. Removing direct duplicates reduced the number of individual samples to 348. Then, we removed opening sentences, such as "*How about this one*" in the example in Fig. 1, and minor formatting differences, such as extra line breaks. This resulted in a list of 128 individual responses. Finally, some samples could again be grouped together, such as in Ex.1.

**Example 1.** The following samples are no direct duplicates, as the wording is slightly different. However, they represent the same pun and are therefore grouped together.

(1.1) *Why did the bicycle fall over?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it was* ***two-tired.***

(1.2) *Why didn’t the bicycle stand up by itself?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it was* ***two tired.***

These steps resulted in a final list of 25 top frequent jokes.

**Top 25 Jokes.** The final list of the top 25 jokes covered 917 of 1008 samples and can be found in the Appendix in Sec. B. Jokes are presented together with their number of occurrences. These are the five most frequent jokes:

T1. *Why did the scarecrow win an award? Because he was outstanding in his field.* (140)

T2. *Why did the tomato turn red?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it saw the salad dressing.* (122)

T3. *Why was the math book sad?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it had too many problems.* (121)

T4. *Why don’t scientists trust atoms?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because they make up everything.* (119)
