## A Access Dates

Models such as ChatGPT are constantly approved and changed. Thus, observations made on one day are not necessarily similarly valid on another day. Therefore, we list the dates of experimental access as precisely as possible in the following. All dates are in 2023.

**Joke Generation:** 22. - 31. January  
**Joke Explanation:** 03. - 13. February  
**Joke Detection:** 23. February - 01. March

## B Joke Generation - Top 25 Jokes

The majority of generated samples were the same 25 puns, which are presented in the following as T1 - T25 together with each number of occurrence:

T1. *Why did the scarecrow win an award?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because he was outstanding in his field.* (140)

T2. *Why did the tomato turn red?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it saw the salad dressing.* (122)

T3. *Why was the math book sad?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it had too many problems.* (121)

T4. *Why don’t scientists trust atoms?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because they make up everything.* (119)

T5. *Why did the cookie go to the doctor?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it was feeling crumbly.* (79)

T6. *Why couldn’t the bicycle stand up by itself?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it was two-tired.* (52)

T7. *Why did the frog call his insurance company?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*He had a jump in his car.* (36)

T8. *Why did the chicken cross the playground?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*To get to the other slide.* (33)

T9. *Why was the computer cold?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it left its Windows open.* (23)

T10. *Why did the hipster burn his tongue?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*He drank his coffee before it was cool.* (21)

T11. *Why don’t oysters give to charity?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because they’re shellfish.* (21)

T12. *Why did the computer go to the doctor?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it had a virus.* (20)

T13. *Why did the banana go to the doctor?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it wasn’t peeling well.* (19)

T14. *Why did the coffee file a police report?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it got mugged.* (18)

T15. *Why did the golfer bring two pairs of pants?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*In case he got a hole in one.* (13)

T16. *Why did the man put his money in the freezer?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*He wanted cold hard cash.* (13)

T17. *Why don’t seagulls fly over the bay?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because then they’d be bagels.* (13)

T18. *Why did the chicken go to the séance?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*To talk to the other side.* (11)

T19. *Why was the belt sent to jail?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it held up a pair of pants.* (11)

T20. *Why did the chicken cross the road?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*To get to the other side.* (7)

T21. *Why did the computer go to the doctor?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Because it had a byte.* (6)

T22. *Why did the cow go to outer space?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*To see the moooon.* (6)

T23. *Why did the man put his money in the blender?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*He wanted to make liquid assets.* (6)

T24. *Why don’t skeletons fight each other?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*They don’t have the guts.* (5)

T25. *What do you call an alligator in a vest?*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*An investigator.* (5)

## C Joke Explanation

In this task, ChatGPT was asked to explain each of the top 25 generated jokes. The prompt for each joke is "*Can you explain why this joke is funny: [joke].*" This prompt is not noted for each joke in the following, as it is redundant. ChatGPT’s responses are complete. Only the formatting of texts might be changed in favor of the paper structure.

The majority, i.e., 23 of 25 generated explanations, were valid. Only the explanations E8, which is discussed in Ex. 9.1 in Sec. 4.2, and E16 are not accurate. A selection of exemplary explanations is presented in this section. The explanation numbers match the number in the top joke list in Sec. B. The Explanations E3, E8, and E20 are discussed in the main paper. The comprehensive list of explanations is provided in the project repository[^4].

**E2. Why did the tomato turn red? Because it saw the salad dressing.** *The joke is based on a pun or wordplay. When a tomato ripens, it turns from green to red. The question "Why did the tomato turn red?" sets up an expectation that there will be a logical reason, such as exposure to sunlight or reaching maturity. However, the punchline "Because it saw the salad dressing" is unexpected*

[^4]: *will be added after the anonymity period ends.*
