- **Winning captions tend to appeal to readers with multiple interpretations through different lenses.** LLMs currently lack the ability to produce such captions. The New Yorker’s editorial pick of the final caption was *“Oh sure, now you look at a map.”* While this caption makes fun of the aliens blaming each other, it also references the experience of a driver missing the direction but claiming they knew the way. On the contrary, GPT4-vision generated the caption *“We travel light-years, and we still need directions!”*, which despite making fun of the characters in the cartoon with the same concept, lacks the relatability from an additional perspective.

Overall, we think the GPT4 models are capable of generating humorous content. However, to rank among the top requires much deeper understanding of cultural references and more steps of reasoning before arriving at a high quality caption.

## 5.2 Diversity Evaluation

We evaluated the token-level and semantic-level diversity of the generation with results given in Table 6. We found the Average EAD and SBERT share the same trend when the base model is the same. Within the human generated caption group, we noticed that their diversity scores are very similar under both metrics. And the human generated texts regardless of their funniness are much more diverse than any model-generated captions.

For pretrained models, the commercial models like GPT, Claude-3 generally outperform the open-source model, like Mistral or LLaVa, in terms of diversity. Introducing the SFT and PPO procedure can moderately improve the diversity metrics for the Mistral model. This is in contrast to the findings of [29], which observed the opposite effect, that RLHF reduced diversity in regular text generation tasks. We also found that running DPO can yield a significant increase in the diversity of the model generations as compared to any other method. We hypothesize that this may be due to our finetuning dataset: for each cartoon, we run DPO with a variety of human-generated captions and it therefore learns not to prefer a single caption or type of caption, but a diversity of captions.

<table>
<tr>
<td>Proposed Research Question #4: DPO exhibits surprisingly good diversity metrics as compared to PPO and SFT. Does the data diversity used for finetuning explain this, or are other mechanisms at play?</td>
</tr>
</table>

# 6 Future Work and Societal Impact

This paper opens a suite of research problems and challenges going forward and we are excited to continue working on multiple directions of future work.

**Improving creativity in LLM generation.** While LLMs are largely applauded for their creativity today, our experiments reveal there is still a significant gap between top human generated content and SOTA LLMs and MLLMs, especially when judged by an expert. We believe addressing the proposed research questions can not only improve funny caption generation, but also improve existing models on the creative generation tasks in general.

**Gamified evaluation of AI generated captions by a crowd.** As the nature of the funny cartoon captioning task is an engaging game by nature, we plan on building an AI versus Human battle ground rating game. Our envisioned game will allow users to submit their own captions. During rating, participants are presented with two sets of captions from different sources (human vs human, human vs AI and AI vs AI). This also provides us a more reliable system for evaluating new captions on new cartoons. At the same time, researchers are encouraged to submit AI model entries to test out their latest model/alignment methods.

**Humor vs offensiveness tradeoff.** Optimizing for humor abilities may result in increasing offensiveness and toxicity of model generated content. We believe an important next step is to study the challenge of balancing humor with potential offensiveness. As the boundary between humorous and offensive are often blurred, the subjective nature of humor and cultural sensitivities needs to be further studied to ensure AI models align with human values.
