[Figure: Example voting page screenshot/cartoon with aliens at a mall directory; visible text includes “MALL DIRECTORY”, the caption “It’s been a few years but I could swear that Radio Shack was right next to Sears.”, and buttons “UNFUNNY”, “SOMEWHAT FUNNY”, “FUNNY”.]

Figure 2: Example voting page for contest 895

Table 1: Dataset statistics

<table>
<tr><td>Number of contests</td><td>365</td></tr>
<tr><td>Number of cartoons</td><td>365</td></tr>
<tr><td>Average #captions/contest</td><td>6044</td></tr>
<tr><td>STD #captions/contest</td><td>1794</td></tr>
<tr><td>Total number of ratings</td><td>284,183,913</td></tr>
<tr><td>Average #ratings/contest</td><td>778,586</td></tr>
<tr><td>STD #ratings/contest</td><td>325,156</td></tr>
<tr><td>Max #ratings/contest</td><td>2,249,813</td></tr>
<tr><td>Min #ratings/contest</td><td>31,173</td></tr>
<tr><td>Average rating</td><td>1.214(±0.12)</td></tr>
<tr><td>Top 10 average rating</td><td>1.824 (±0.15)</td></tr>
</table>

this keeps the rating engaging by presenting users interesting captions to rate compared to random sampling. On average the contest receives close to 780,000 ratings per week. The top 5% of captions receive an average of 821 ratings, and the bottom 50% of captions receive around 85 ratings.

The crowdsourced voting system for the New Yorker Caption Contest (NYCC) has resulted in an extensive dataset on human preferences and is a key contribution of this work. The dataset can be accessed at `https://huggingface.co/datasets/yguooo/newyorker_caption_ranking`. It consists of the cartoons, captions, and ratings for each one of 365 contests from contests 530 to 895. It provides an extensive labeled dataset on humor for researchers across multiple domains to study. In the related works, we describe some other works that have utilized this dataset. See Table 1 for more dataset statistics.

## 4 HumorousAI Benchmark: Funny Cartoon Caption Generation

In this section, we establish a benchmark method for evaluating the ability of large language models to generate funny captions. We start by describing the tasks in Section 4.1 followed by our proposed evaluation methods described in Section 4.2. Lastly, in Section 4.3, we give a brief overview of the various finetuning methods we explore in this paper.

### 4.1 Task

We focus on the cartoon captioning task in this paper, where a model is given the information about the cartoon and is asked to generate funny captions about it. Specifically, we evaluate both multimodal large language models (MLLMs) and language-only models (LLMs). For MLLMs, we provide the raw cartoon images. For language-only models, we instead provide the descriptions and object entities of the cartoons. The text format of these descriptions are either written by human [22] or generated by MLLMs by given the images (see Appendix B.1 for details). See Table 7 for the example descriptions.

We hold out a set of 91 out of the 358 contests for evaluation by an evaluator (see Section 4.2). For each contest and its corresponding cartoon, we ask the language model to generate ten captions. This group of ten captions is then compared against four groups of past human submissions by the evaluator. For each contest, the four groups are captions ranked #1-10, #200-209, #1000-1009 and the ten captions that received median ranking. The evaluations are conducted along three dimensions:

1. **Overall comparison:** In this setting, the evaluator compares the overall funniness of the group of model-generated captions against each group of contestant-submitted captions. Win rates of the model-generated captions will be reported in Section 5 and Table 3.
2. **Best pick comparison:** We ask the evaluator to first pick the funniest caption from each of the two groups and then choose the funnier caption accordingly. Win rates are reported similarly to above.
3. **Caption diversity:** We measure the diversity of captions within each group of captions either generated by language models or submitted by human contestants in the past. Similarly to the study [29] on measuring the output diversity for non-creative tasks (summarization and instruction
