## D Crowdsourced Caption Contest Ratings

---

**Algorithm 1** Upper Confidence Bound (UCB) Algorithm

1: **Initialization:** For each caption $x$, initialize $N_x(0) = 0$ and $\hat{\mu}_x = 0$.  
2: **for** $t = 1$ to $T$ **do**  
3: Select caption $x_t = \arg\max_x \left(\hat{\mu}_x + \sqrt{\frac{2\ln(4N_x(t)^2)}{N_x(t)}}\right)$.  
4: Observe the reward $r_t \in \{1, 2, 3\}$ for caption $x_t$.  
5: Update the number of times action $x_t$ has been selected: $N_{x_t}(t) = N_{x_t}(t - 1) + 1$.  
6: Update the empirical mean reward of action $x_t$:

$$
\hat{\mu}_{x_t} = \frac{N_{x_t}(t - 1) \cdot \hat{\mu}_{x_t} + r_t}{N_{x_t}(t)}
$$

7: **end for**

---

As described in the text, we used a UCB [2] variant to encourage high-performing captions to receive the votes. We experimented with standard UCB (see Algorithm 1) and KL-UCB specifically optimized for discrete rewards [52]. The data repository labels datasets according to which algorithm was employed for each contest. In practice, using UCB in high-traffic asynchronous environments faces specific challenges. For example, we wanted to ensure that voters could only vote on one caption at a time, that the model sent batches of captions to users to reduce round trips to the server, and that the underlying model was able to update as frequently as possible. For more details on overcoming such challenges, see [25].

## E Additional Results

We benchmark the performance of different reward model as in Table 8. It is worth noting that our goal here is to understand the effect of the ranking model for the downstream preference learning algorithms, thus we evaluate on the same dataset as in Equation (1) instead of the setting of Table 2. weqweasdas/RM-Mistral-7B and Eurus-RM-7B Instruct are the top two models with the highest reward ranking accuracy. We choose to use weqweasdas/RM-Mistral-7B because it generally achieves better ranking accuracy for various data settings that we experimented on.

In our experiment, we noticed that PPO algorithm requires a much more aggressive early stopping scheme than DPO and SFT. Thus, we further look at the training dynamics of the PPO algorithm in Table 9. Here, the batch size is 128. It is worth noting that the result at iteration 0 has an lower overall win rate than the zero shot result in Table 3. The reason is that our PPO and DPO algorithms need to use a simpler prompt as in Table 10 to generate meaningful texts. From Table 9, we verified the steady increase of the mean reward and decrease of the training loss. However, the improvement on these metrics does not corresponds to an improvement of the overall humorous generation. We hypothesize that this is due to the complex nature of humor and the potential for out-of-distribution generations when running RLHF.

Table 8: Reward model benchmark

|  | Reward Ranking Acc (%) |
|---|---:|
| Mistral-7B Instruct | 73.17 |
| Llama-3-8B Instruct | 74.01 |
| Llama-2-7B Chat | 72.63 |
| weqweasdas/RM-Mistral-7B | **74.05** |
| Eurus-RM-7B | **74.18** |
| FsfairX-LLAMA3-RM-v0.1 | 73.72 |
| Qwen1.5-7B-Chat | 72.26 |
