As compared to BoN, running RLHF on the same reward model is unable to achieve as high a level of performance. As we show in Appendix E, running PPO does indeed yield generations with higher reward score as given by the reward model, and as our BoN results indicate, filtering captions based on their reward does give better performance. This suggests that, while our reward model is able to effectively filter generations, tuning a model to maximize it does not necessarily lead to improved performance. We hypothesize that this is due to the complex nature of humor and the potential for out-of-distribution generations when running RLHF. While our reward model may effectively rank captions within a set of reasonable and in-distribution captions (for example those generated by the 0-shot model), small deviations from the training distribution could lead to an erroneous reward signal. Furthermore, for tasks such as humor generation very subtle changes (for example, minor changes in word choice) can drastically change how humorous a caption is—the distribution of humorous captions is extremely sensitive. Together, we believe these phenomenon make it challenging for PPO to effectively finetune the weights to obtain significantly more humorous generations.

<div style="border: 1px solid black; padding: 6px; margin: 1em 0;">
Proposed Research Question #2: Can we train a reward model able to better capture humor? Can RLHF still be effectively applied to settings where the distribution of correct responses is highly sensitive?
</div>

In contrast to RLHF, DPO does yield a significant increase over the 0-shot model for the Best Pick Win Rate metric. Note that DPO only optimizes the model on offline preference data and, as such, does not require an evaluation of any out-of-distribution samples. We hypothesize that, in settings such as humor generation where the desired distribution is extremely sensitive, this could lead to better performance, as it avoids the aforementioned issue where RLHF may quickly drift to producing out-of-distribution samples, for which the reward signal is erroneous.

<div style="border: 1px solid black; padding: 6px; margin: 1em 0;">
Proposed Research Question #3: Does DPO lead to better in-distribution generation, and produce a model more effectively able to match the distribution of the finetuning data?
</div>

**Human Evaluation.** We also ran a human evaluation using six workers from Prolific [39] along with a humor expert (a former New Yorker editor) to understand how often people preferred caption generations from Claude vs top 10 ranked captions generated by humans. We find that people only prefer Claude’s generations 34% of the time. Our expert preferred Claude’s generation only 1.6% of the time. He said, *“I think I preferred human captions because from my “expert” vantage point they were better phrased and more concise even independent from being funny. At this point AI tends to be too verbose in almost any task but, for me that is a liability when it comes to creating a good caption.”*

Table 4: Rate of Claude-3-Opus generated captions preferred over Human Top 10.

| Evaluator | Preference Rate |
|---|---:|
| Human (expert) | **1.6%** |
| Human (worker) | **35.4%** |

This suggests that, though SOTA LLMs can generate a diverse set of funny captions, there remains a significant gap in their humor and creativity when judged from the perspective of human experts.

**Example Generation and Qualitative Analysis.** As shown in Table 5, we provide some generation samples for the cartoon in Figure 2. Indeed, we see that LLMs generally produce longer and more verbose captions than top human ones. Moreover, we generate multiple additional captions with GPT-4o-vision and Claude-3-Opus for the cartoon in Figure 2. Below, we make a qualitative analysis around the shortcoming of these generated captions from SOTA LLMs.

- **Missing visual details resulting in LLMs generating out-of-context captions.** As an example, GPT-4o-vision generated another caption of *“So the alien abduction statistics were right. Malls are the prime hunting grounds!”* This caption does not match the cartoon though, since the aliens look missing and worried. Their bodies look skinny and weak. In other words, they don’t seem to be here to hunt humans.
- **Many generated captions are forms of word/phrase modification and creation.** An example of this caption is *“Do they have a Black Hole Friday sale?”*, also generated by GPT4o-vision. Another example from Claude-3-opus is *“I don’t see ’Invasion Supplies’ listed anywhere...”* Both of these captions are inventing new words and phrases to make the caption funny. While these can be somewhat funny, they are usually not rated highly by the New Yorker audiences.
