$x_i^B$ respectively. We use a small validation set of $m$ examples $\{x_i^A, x_i^B\}_{i=1}^m$ with sigmoid scores $\{s_i^A, s_i^B\}_{i=1}^m$ and ground truth preference by the crowd denoted as $\{y_i \in \{A, B\}\}_{i=1}^m$. The current decision rule takes the form of $\hat{f}(x_i^A, x_i^B) = \begin{cases} A & \text{if } s_i^A - s_i^B > 0 \\ B & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}$.

We simply set a different threshold $\tau$, which induces $\hat{f}_\tau(x_i^A, x_i^B) = \begin{cases} A & \text{if } s_i^A - s_i^B > \tau \\ B & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}$. The threshold $\tau^*$ is chosen so that the accuracy over the validation set is maximized:

$$
\tau^* = \arg\max_{\tau} \sum_{i=1}^{m} \mathbf{1}\{y_i = \hat{f}_\tau(x_i^A, x_i^B)\}.
$$

Ties are broken arbitrarily above. We then use the recalibrated decision rule with $\tau^*$ for all of our evaluations.

### C.3 Finetuning Experiment Details

Our training and test split for finetuning range from contest 530 to 890. In particular, our dataset includes all the data of [22] with ranking information within this range. ([22] only contains contests up to #763.) Thus, we choose our test split to be the combination of testing (47 contests) and validation split (44 contests) of [22] within the 530-890 range. The rest available contests form our training split.

Our finetuning methods are trained from Mistral 7B Instruct v0.1 and LLaVa v1.6 Mistral (multimodal case) via LoRA updates [23]. We use a variant of Mistral 7b model as our initial reward model to finetune from [^3]. The choice of reward is based on our benchmarking results of top reward models on our caption generation dataset (Table 8). For SFT methods, we train on 1000 pairs of captions from each contest, with the preferred caption from the top 1000 captions and the alternative randomly sampled from the rest. For reward modeling, DPO and RLHF, we train on 1000 pairs of captions with three standard deviations apart according to Equation (1) per contest. Additionally, we train our model using the default choice of optimizer from TRL up to 1 epoch. Then, we search for the best hyper-parameter over the neighborhood of default parameters and pick the best performing model under our GPT-based group comparison metrics. For our reward model, we pick the best model based on the reward evaluation on the holdout set. For both pretrained and finetuned models, we use the same generation configuration file with temperature 0.7, top-p sampling probability 0.95, repetition penalty 1.15. When evaluating using the Best-of-N (BoN) method, we pick the top 10 captions based on the trained reward model, out of 50 generated candidates from caption generation models. Our choice of batch is 64 for SFT and reward model, and 128 for all other settings.

During the training process of DPO, PPO, SFT, we create a separate padding tokens and resize the token embedding of the pretrained model so that the text generation can terminate properly. Furthermore, in the loss design of SFT case, we only evaluate the next-token prediction loss on the caption segment, as all the training texts contain similar prompts. Since we only reported the iteration with the best results, early stopping occurs before a single epoch for the choice of best iterations.

We also noted that PPO performs the best when starting from the pretrained Mistral Instruct 7B model, whereas DPO performs the best from a sft checkpoint of Mistral. This SFT checkpoint needs to be tuned on simple prompts and does not render a better performance than the sft tuned on the best prompt (with all those descriptions).

**Choice of Prompts** In Table 10, we document the best prompt we found for each training algorithm. Generally speaking, the zero-shot, SFT, preference learning algorithm each require simpler prompts than the one preceding them.

**Computation Cost** Finetuning a SFT, DPO, PPO model usually takes 2-4 days to train till convergence on a A100 machine. Evaluating a single number of each scenario cost roughly $5 on the openai platform.

[^3]: We use the pretrained reward model from `https://huggingface.co/weqweasdas/RM-Mistral-7B`
