## C Additional Experiment Setups

### C.1 Human Experiment Details

Each participant provided informed consent in compliance with our Institutional IRB and was compensated for their time. We paid participants \$12 an hour and spent about \$600 on data collection. The following instructions were used for the human experiments.

#### C.1.1 Human Pairwise with description generated by GPT4o-vision

In each trial of this task, you will see a description of a cartoon and two captions: the cartoon description is on the top, and the two caption choices are beneath the cartoon description. For each trial, please select the caption that is the funniest for the cartoon.

#### C.1.2 Human Pairwise with Cartoon Image

In each trial of this task, you will see one cartoon and two captions: the cartoon is on top, and the two caption choices are beneath the cartoon. For each trial, please select the caption that is the funniest for the cartoon.

#### C.1.3 Human Group (Overall) with description generated by GPT4o-vision

In each trial of this task, you will see a description of a cartoon and two groups of captions: the cartoon description is on the top, and the two grouped caption choices are beneath the cartoon description. For each trial, please select the group of captions that is the funniest for the cartoon.

#### C.1.4 Human Group (Overall) with Cartoon Image

In each trial of this task, you will see a cartoon and two groups of captions: the cartoon is on the top, and the two grouped caption choices are beneath the cartoon. For each trial, please select the group of captions that is the funniest for the cartoon.

#### C.1.5 Human Group (Best Pick) with description generated by GPT4o-vision

In each trial of this task, you will see a description of a cartoon and two groups of captions: the cartoon description is on the top, and the two grouped caption choices are beneath the cartoon description. For each trial, please select the group of captions that contains the funniest caption for the cartoon. First, pick the funniest caption in each group, and then compare between the two captions to pick the funniest group.

#### C.1.6 Human Group (Best Pick) with Cartoon Image

In each trial of this task, you will see a cartoon and two groups of captions: the cartoon is on the top, and the two grouped caption choices are beneath the cartoon. For each trial, please select the group of captions that contains the funniest caption for the cartoon. First, pick the funniest caption in each group, and then compare between the two captions to pick the funniest group.

#### C.1.7 Human top 10 vs Claude generated captions

In each trial of this task, you will see a cartoon and two groups of captions: the cartoon is on the top, and the two grouped caption choices are beneath the cartoon. For each trial, ¡strong¿please select the group of captions that is the funniest for the cartoon.

### C.2 Recalibration of GPT Models for Ranking

For group comparisons without chain of thought, we observe a strong bias of GPT4 models choosing $A$ over $B$. In other words, for some examples, the model always chooses option $A$ even after we flip the two groups. Therefore, this suggests we need to calibrate the model predictions. We adopt a simple approach by readjusting the decision threshold. Let $s_i^A, s_i^B$ denote the log probabilities of choosing $A$ and $B$ by the GPT4 model for two groups of human submitted captions $x_i^A$ and
