**Alignment of LLMs.** Finetuning of LLMs has proved a critical step in aligning the behavior of pretrained models to downstream tasks. A standard pipeline is to first finetune the pretrained model via *supervised fine-tuning* (SFT)—to imitate expert demonstrations—followed by *reinforcement learning from human feedback* (RLHF) [14]—where a reward model is trained on human preferences, and then the SFT model is trained to maximize this reward via PPO [44]. This pipeline has been successfully applied for finetuning frontier models [68, 4, 38, 54], and has inspired a vast amount of follow-up work refining and extending the SFT [63, 64, 20, 35, 18] and RLHF [6, 16, 33, 48, 36, 51, 9, 11] methodologies. *Direct preference optimization* (DPO) methods [41] have recently emerged as a simpler yet still effective replacement to the RLHF paradigm. Instead of training a reward model and then optimizing this reward, DPO combines these steps by directly optimizing the SFT model on offline human preference data, and has inspired a variety of extensions [21, 3, 49, 43, 53, 61]. While the aforementioned works focus on finetuning on human feedback, a related line of works has sought to finetune on AI-generated feedback [60, 57, 30, 8, 13, 62, 5]. Despite extensive research into various fine-tuning methodologies, understanding their effectiveness for creative tasks remains nascent. While several studies have explored when and why different methods are most effective [19, 29, 56, 10, 66, 46], they primarily address standard tasks like reducing harmfulness and increasing helpfulness, and do not assess fine-tuning methods for tasks requiring creativity, the focus of this work.

**RLHF Datasets.** Existing Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) datasets, consisting of various responses to a prompt along with a preference ordering of those responses, have been critical for aligning existing AI systems to human preferences. We briefly review some of the most popular ones. Anthropic’s HH-RLHF dataset [4] consists of chosen and rejected texts focusing on helpfulness and harmlessness. Stanford’s SHP Dataset [17] and Stack Exchange preference dataset [1] have aggregated questions and answers along with their ratings from various online platforms. OpenAI’s summarization dataset [24] includes rankings of paired answers derived from human evaluations of text summaries. The data comes from a variety of sources, such as news articles and scientific papers, where human annotators compare the quality, coherence, and relevance of two different AI-generated summaries for the same text. The WebGPT comparisons [37] offer a dataset of human comparisons of AI-generated web search results, emphasizing the importance of high-quality, relevant information retrieval. Finally, we mention the Nectar dataset [67], which consists of a large series of prompts along with a list of five answers generated by various LLM’s along with a ranking of these prompts by GPT-4.

**Humor in LLMs.** Several recent works have studied humor capabilities of large language models, in addition to the ones studying the New Yorker Caption Contest. Concurrent to our work, Zhong et al. [65] also studies humor in a multi-modal setting, focusing on a different humor game Oogiri. Their experiments also suggests that existing chain of thought techniques are insufficient for LLMs to generate and understand humor. Similarly, Jentzsch and Kersting [26] also shows GPT-3 still lacks humor abilities despite the good performance on other factual knowledge benchmarks. Furthermore, several works have focused on LLMs’ capabilities in understanding humor, including humor detection [15], puns [58], and humor explanation [12].

## 3 New Yorker Caption Contest

Every week The New Yorker publishes an uncaptioned cartoon and solicits humorous captions from its readers through their website. The cartoon editors then review this list of captions and choose the top three funniest ones according to their judgement. The contest began in 2005, and at the time this work was written, there have been roughly 900 contests. For the last eight years, starting with contest 530, the New Yorker has utilized an online crowdsourced rating system (see Figure 2) where users are presented with captions and can rate whether the caption is funny (a reward of 3), somewhat funny (a reward of 2), or unfunny (a reward of 1). Each week a large number of captions are submitted (on average more than 6,000). These captions are first filtered by the New Yorker’s editorial staff to remove captions that are not humorous or include personal information and/or offensive content, and then are sent to the crowdsourcing platform for large-scale rating. Finally, the New Yorker editors make their final decisions based on the crowdsourced ratings.

The rating process utilizes a multi-armed bandit-based algorithm, namely a UCB-variant (see [25, 52] and Appendix D for details), to present users with higher-performing captions more frequently in order to efficiently identify the best caption. Additionally, since many of the captions are unfunny,
