As shown in Table 2, language models are generally more accurate in detecting the higher-ranked favorable captions in a group comparison paradigm compared to the pairwise paradigm. These models also outperform average humans (crowd workers) in judging the funniness across all three comparison settings. Notably, in the overall group comparisons we also included evaluations from a human expert (the former cartoon editor for The New Yorker). The expert significantly outperforms all other evaluators (AI and human), exposing a significant gap between human experts and SOTA AI systems in this domain. Also, the group comparisons are somewhat more challenging for crowd workers than pairwise comparisons, but group comparisons make the language model evaluations much more reliable and accurate. Further details about the evaluations can be found in Appendix C.

In conclusion, we establish two benchmark evaluation methods for the rest of this paper: **Group Comparison (Overall)** using GPT4-Turbo as evaluator with descriptions from Hessel et al. [22] and **Group Comparison (Best Pick)** using GPT4o-vision as evaluator with raw cartoon images.

## 4.3 Alignment Finetuning Methods

In our study, we compare the performance of a 0-shot model (with standard and Best-of-N sampling) to that of an SFT finetuned model, an RLHF finetuned model, and a DPO finetuned model. We briefly outline these methods here, and refer the reader to [14, 4, 38, 41] for further details. In all cases, we adopt the implementation from the TRL package [55].

**Supervised Finetuning (SFT):** SFT assumes access to a dataset $\mathcal{D}_{\text{sft}} = \{(x^{(i)}, y^{(i)})\}_{i=1}^{N}$ of prompt-completion pairs, where $y^{(i)}$ is assumed to be an “expert” completion for prompt $x^{(i)}$. SFT then tunes the weight of the base model to maximize the likelihood of completions $y^{(i)}$ given prompt $x^{(i)}$.

**Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF):** RLHF assumes access to a preference dataset $\mathcal{D}_{\text{pref}} = \{(x^{(i)}, y_w^{(i)}, y_l^{(i)})\}_{i=1}^{M}$, where $x^{(i)}$ is a prompt, and $y_w^{(i)}, y_l^{(i)}$ two possible completions to $x^{(i)}$, where $y_w^{(i)}$ is preferred over $y_l^{(i)}$. RLHF assumes these preferences are consistent with an (unknown) reward function $r^*$, typically assumed to follow the Bradley-Terry model [7]. It first trains a reward model $\hat{r}$ on $\mathcal{D}_{\text{pref}}$, and then finetunes the base language model to maximize $\hat{r}$, typically running PPO [44] and regularizing the training to ensure it does not deviate significantly from the SFT model.

**Direct Preference Optimization (DPO):** DPO operates under the same assumptions as RLHF, but skips the reward modeling step entirely, and instead finetunes the base language model on $\mathcal{D}_{\text{pref}}$ directly, tuning it to produce next-token likelihoods with orderings consistent with $\mathcal{D}_{\text{pref}}$.

**Best-of-N Sampling (BoN):** Best-of-N sampling does not modify the weights of the base model. Instead, it samples $N$ completions from the base model for any prompt $x$, and chooses the completion with the highest reward, as quantified by the reward $\hat{r}$ obtained from the RLHF reward-learning step.

**Preference Dataset Construction:** In our setting, we take $\mathcal{D}_{\text{sft}}$ to be a dataset of cartoon-caption pairs, where the captions $y^{(i)}$ are drawn at random from the entire training set of captions for cartoon $x^{(i)}$. $\mathcal{D}_{\text{pref}}$ is constructed by taking a cartoon $x^{(i)}$ and then two captions $y_w^{(i)}$ and $y_l^{(i)}$, where $y_w^{(i)}$ is set to a caption with a higher human rating then $y_l^{(i)}$. Specifically, we sample the pair to be at least 3 standard deviation apart from each other, i.e.

$$
\text{Rating}(y_w^{(i)}) - \text{Rating}(y_l^{(i)}) \geq 3 \cdot \sqrt{\text{STD}(y_w^{(i)})^2 + \text{STD}(y_l^{(i)})^2},
\tag{1}
$$

where Rating($y$) is the average score of caption $y$ from human raters according to rewards defined in Section 3 (note this is different from the rewards from the reward model of RLHF). STD($y$) is the corresponding standard deviation of scores from human raters.

# 5 Experiments

In this study, we evaluate the performance of caption generation. We experiment with two open-source large language models, Mistral 7b Instuct (mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.1)[27] and the multimodal model LLaVa 7b (llava-hf/llava-v1.6-mistral-7b-hf)[32] finetuned with methods in Section 4.3. We also evaluate state-of-the-art close-sourced models including GPT4o and Claude 3 Opus. See Appendix C.3 for more details. Our code is available at https://github.com/yguooo/cartoon-caption-generation.
