**Table 2: Evaluation reliability measure:** Ranking accuracy of captions ranked #1-10 vs captions ranked #1000-1009 averaged over 200 pairs. See Appendix B.1 for details on how the cartoon descriptions are generated.

| Comparison Method | Evaluator | Description/Image | Ranking Accuracy(%) |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Pairwise** | Human (worker) | GPT4o-vision | 61.67±3.45 |
|  | Human (worker) | Cartoon Image | 60.79±3.46 |
|  | GPT4-Turbo-vision | Cartoon Image | 61±3.46 |
|  | GPT4o-vision | Cartoon Image | 60.5±3.47 |
|  | GPT4o | GPT4o-vision | 65±3.38 |
|  | **GPT4-Turbo** | **GPT4o-vision** | **67±3.33** |
|  | GPT4-Turbo | GPT4-vision | 66±3.36 |
|  | GPT4-Turbo | Hessel et al. [22] | 66.5±3.35 |
| **Group<br>(Overall)** | Human (worker) | GPT4o-vision | 59.23±1.45 |
|  | Human (worker) | Cartoon Image | 57.5±1.37 |
|  | Human (expert) | Cartoon Image | 94.28±2.79 |
|  | GPT4-Turbo-vision | Cartoon Image | 63±3.42 |
|  | GPT4o-vision | Cartoon Image | 74±3.11 |
|  | GPT4-Turbo | GPT4o-vision | 73±3.15 |
|  | GPT4-Turbo | GPT4-vision | 74±3.11 |
|  | **GPT4-Turbo** | **Hessel et al. [22]** | **77.5±2.96** |
| **Group<br>(Best Pick)** | Human (worker) | GPT4o-vision | 56 ± 2.22 |
|  | Human (worker) | Cartoon Image | 63.66±1.96 |
|  | **GPT4o-vision** | **Cartoon Image** | **70.5±3.23** |
|  | GPT4-Turbo | GPT4o-vision | 61.5±3.45 |
|  | GPT4-Turbo | Hessel et al. [22] | 60±3.47 |

following), we use the expectation-adjusted distinct N-grams (denoted as **Average EAD**) [31] and the Sentence-BERT embedding cosine similarity (denoted as **SBERT**) [42] to measure the per-contest diversity. **Average EAD** measures the token-level similarity of the generated captions, while **SBERT** measures the semantic-level similarity. We do not use the NLI diversity from [50] as it is conversation-specific.

Our evaluation primarily focuses on comparing groups of captions since evaluation reliability can be significantly improved as we now discuss below.

## 4.2 Evaluation Method

*Humor is notoriously subjective. Humans cannot infallibly predict what other humans will find funny.*  
*If they could, no joke would ever fall flat. We just do the best we can, always hoping we can do better.*  
*Likewise for these models.* —Bob Mankoff, former cartoon editor of The New Yorker

In this section, we aim to find a comparably reliable evaluation method for judging model-generated captions against human submissions. We experimented with various versions of GPT-4 and also human evaluations from Prolific [39]. This task has been studied widely before within the context of humor [45, 40, 28, 22]. However, unlike these previous studies that only evaluate two candidate captions at a time (denoted by **Pairwise**), we introduce the novel group comparison techniques for evaluation (denoted by **Group Overall** and **Group Best Pick**). As described in Section 4.1, we compare groups of ten captions from different sources, such as human submissions from different ranking levels, or captions generated by different language models. To measure the reliability of different evaluators, as reported in Table 2, we compare their accuracy in judging human-submitted captions from top #10 versus #1000-1009 across 200 different contests. For the **Pairwise** comparison, we uniformly at random choose one caption from each of the two groups, which exactly corresponds to the *ranking* task proposed by Hessel et al. [22]. For group comparisons, we provide all ten captions from each group to a single query to an LLM/human rater. The detailed prompts can be found in Appendix B for various language models. All of the prompts for evaluation utilize the 5-shot in-context prompting technique, which provides five caption comparison examples from other contests before asking the model to rank the pair/groups of captions for the given cartoon.
