Table 9: Training Dynamics of PPO

| Iteration | 0 | 10 | 20 | 30 | 40 | 50 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Contestant Median<br>(Overall Win Rate (%)) ↑ | 17.03 | **24.73** | 16.48 | 9.89 | 6.04 | 4.95 |
| Mean Reward ↑ | 0.0057 | 0.0260 | 0.0186 | 0.1309 | 0.1356 | **0.2587** |
| Loss ↓ | 0.3592 | 0.2001 | 0.1773 | 0.1709 | 0.0848 | **0.0584** |

Table 10: Best choice of prompts for each training algorithm

<table>
  <tr>
    <th></th>
    <th>Best Choice of Prompt</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Zero-Shot</td>
    <td>
      [INST] &lt;&gt; I want you to act as a sophisticated reader of The New Yorker Magazine. You are competing in The New Yorker Cartoon Caption Contest. Your task is to generate funny captions for a cartoon. Here are some ideas for developing funny captions. First think about characteristics associated with the objects and people featured in the cartoon. Then consider what are the unusual or absurd elements in the cartoon. It might help to imagine conversations between the characters. Then think about funny and non-obvious connections that can be made between the objects and characters. Try to come up with funny captions that fit the cartoon, but are not too direct. It may be funnier if the person reading the caption has to think a little bit to get the joke. Next, I will describe a cartoon image and then you should generate 1 funny caption for the cartoon along with an explanation for each.<br>
      scene: &lt;<em>scene</em>&gt;<br>
      description: &lt;<em>description</em>&gt;<br>
      uncanny description: &lt;<em>uncanny description</em>&gt;<br>
      entities: &lt;<em>entities</em>&gt; &lt;&gt;<br>
      funny caption: [/INST] &lt;<em>sample caption</em>&gt;
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SFT</td>
    <td>
      [INST]I want you to act as a sophisticated reader of The New Yorker Magazine. You are competing in The New Yorker Cartoon Caption Contest. Your task is to generate funny captions for a cartoon. Here are some ideas for developing funny captions. First think about characteristics associated with the objects and people featured in the cartoon. Then consider what are the unusual or absurd elements in the cartoon. It might help to imagine conversations between the characters. Then think about funny and non-obvious connections that can be made between the objects and characters. Try to come up with funny captions that fit the cartoon, but are not too direct. It may be funnier if the person reading the caption has to think a little bit to get the joke. Next, I will describe a cartoon image and then you should generate 1 funny caption for the cartoon[/INST]<br>
      scene: &lt;<em>scene</em>&gt;<br>
      description: &lt;<em>description</em>&gt;<br>
      uncanny description: &lt;<em>uncanny description</em>&gt;<br>
      entities: &lt;<em>entities</em>&gt;<br>
      funny caption: &lt;<em>sample caption</em>&gt;
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
