<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Best Choice of Prompt</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>LLaVA</td>
<td>[INST] I want you to act as a sophisticated reader of The New<br>
Yorker Magazine. You are competing in The New Yorker Cartoon<br>
Caption Contest. Your task is to generate funny captions for a<br>
cartoon. Here are some ideas for developing funny captions.<br>
First think about characteristics associated with the objects and<br>
people featured in the cartoon. Then consider what are the un-<br>
usual or absurd elements in the cartoon. It might help to imagine<br>
conversations between the characters. Then think about funny and<br>
non-obvious connections that can be made between the objects<br>
and characters. Try to come up with funny captions that fit the<br>
cartoon, but are not too direct. It may be funnier if the person<br>
reading the caption has to think a little bit to get the joke. Next,<br>
I will provide a cartoon image with descriptions and then you<br>
should generate 1 funny caption for the cartoon along with an<br>
explanation for each.<br>
image: &lt;<em>image</em>&gt;<br>
scene: &lt;<em>scene</em>&gt;<br>
description: &lt;<em>description</em>&gt;<br>
uncanny description: &lt;<em>uncanny description</em>&gt;<br>
entities: &lt;<em>entities</em>&gt;<br>
Generate a funny caption for the image: [/INST] &lt;<em>sample cap-</em><br>
<em>tion</em>&gt;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DPO/PPO/Reward Model</td>
<td>scene: &lt;<em>scene</em>&gt;<br>
description: &lt;<em>description</em>&gt;<br>
uncanny description: &lt;<em>uncanny description</em>&gt;<br>
entities: &lt;<em>entities</em>&gt;<br>
funny caption: &lt;<em>sample caption</em>&gt;</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
