**Prompts for Literal Description:**

- Candidate literal description: gen  
- Reference literal description: ref

Task: You need to determine how accurately the above candidate literal description matches the given reference literal description of a comic narrative.

Using a scale from 1 to 5, rate the accuracy with which the candidate description matches the reference description, with 1 being the least accurate and 5 being the most accurate.

Please directly output a score by strictly following this format: [[score]], for example: Rating: [[3]].

**Prompts for Contradiction:**

Background: You are an impartial judge. You will be given a literal description of a comic that presents the same situation from two opposing perspectives, highlighting contradictions. You will also be provided with a gold-standard illustration as reference that effectively demonstrates these narrative contradictions.

Your task is to evaluate the quality of a generated illustration and determine whether it accurately depicts the narrative contradictions in the comic. Then, assign a score on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is the lowest and 5 is the highest, based on its quality.

- The literal description of the comic: description  
- The reference contradiction illustration: ref  
- The generated contradiction illustration: gen

Please directly output a score by strictly following this format: [[score]], for example: Rating: [[3]].

Fig. 14: Prompts for GPT-based Evaluations

compute ROUGE score, and calculate the BERT score using the official implementation[^6]. For GPT based evaluations for literal description and contradiction, we use *gpt-3.5-turbo-0125* version. The prompts we used are shown in Fig. 14.

## C.3 Human Evaluations

For literal description writing and contradiction generation tasks, we randomly select 40 samples from each task for human evaluation. Model outputs are anonymized and shuffled before being presented to the reviewer. Following [49], the evaluation considers three key aspects:

- **Correctness:** The model’s output accurately conveys the narrative of the comic.
- **Completeness:** The model’s output covers all important elements of the comic’s narrative.
- **Faithfulness:** All content in the model’s output is supported by the comic image, with no hallucinated information.

[^6]: https://github.com/Tiiiger/bert_score

**Data Generation Prompt:**

You are a creative comic writer and a question-generation expert. Your task is to craft engaging narratives for ten two-panel comics. Each comic should depict the same situation from two contrasting perspectives, emphasizing contradictions or opposing viewpoints. The narratives should be thought-provoking, emotionally engaging, and capable of sparking discussions about some popular topics and events of daily life.

After crafting the comic narrative, generate two challenging multiple-choice questions: - Moral question: Explore the underlying moral or philosophical lesson presented in the comic. - Title question: Encourage thoughtful selection of a title that best captures the essence of the comic.

The questions should inspire deep reflection and provide meaningful answer choices that encourage nuanced thinking.

Below are several examples:

Example_1

Example_2

...

Example_10

Now generate five comic and questions. The output should strictly be a jsonlist, with output presented as a JSON object:

Fig. 15: Prompts used for Data Generation.

For literal description writing, we evaluate all three aspects, while for contradiction generation, only correctness and faithfulness are assessed.

## C.4 Model Finetuning Details for Deep Reasoning Tasks

Our approach employs a weakly supervised textual data synthesis pipeline using powerful LLMs, such as GPT-4o, as a data generator. Instead of relying on paired image-text data, we replace comic images with textual descriptions of narratives, accompanied by corresponding reasoning questions. This approach leverages the advanced text generation capabilities of LLMs while eliminating the need for visual data during training.

**Data Generation.** To construct the dataset, we manually select 10 diverse comic samples and utilize the few-shot learning ability of GPT-4o to generate 20,000 scene descriptions using the prompt shown in Fig. 15. A temperature of 1.0 is set for GPT-4o to encourage diversity in scene generation.

Next, based on these initial exemplars, GPT-4o synthesizes 20,000 contradictory comic scene descriptions. For each generated scene, additional prompts are used to create reasoning questions targeting symbolism selection and title matching tasks.

**Finetuning Process.** The generated dataset is then used to finetune the language components of VLMs while keeping their visual perception modules unchanged. This targeted finetuning enhances the models’ comic understanding and reasoning abilities while preserving their original visual
