[6] Y. Yang, Z. Li, Q. Dong, H. Xia, and Z. Sui, “Can large multimodal models uncover deep semantics behind images?” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.11281*, 2024. 1, 3

[7] J. O. Young, *Art and knowledge*. Routledge, 2003. 1

[8] T. Groensteen, *Comics and narration*. Univ. Press of Mississippi, 2013. 1

[9] E. Bearne, “Rethinking literacy: Communication, representation and text,” *Reading*, vol. 37, no. 3, pp. 98–103, 2003. 1

[10] J. Dittmer, “Comic book visualities: a methodological manifesto on geography, montage and narration,” *Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers*, vol. 35, no. 2, pp. 222–236, 2010. 1

[11] J. Schechter, “Juxtaposition: A new way to combine logics,” *The Review of Symbolic Logic*, vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 560–606, 2011. 1

[12] P. J. Kuttner, M. B. Weaver-Hightower, and N. Sousanis, “Comics-based research: The affordances of comics for research across disciplines,” *Qualitative Research*, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 195–214, 2021. 1

[13] Y. Tong, Y. Wang, D. Li, S. Wang, Z. Lin, S. Han, and J. Shang, “Eliminating reasoning via inferring with planning: A new framework to guide llms’ non-linear thinking,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.12342*, 2023. 1

[14] S. Bubeck, V. Chandrasekaran, R. Eldan, J. Gehrke, E. Horvitz, E. Kamar, P. Lee, Y. T. Lee, Y. Li, S. Lundberg *et al.*, “Sparks of artificial general intelligence: Early experiments with gpt-4,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.12712*, 2023. 1

[15] Z. Hu, T. Liang, J. Li, Y. Lu, Y. Zhou, Y. Qiao, J. Ma, and Y. Yin, “Cracking the code of juxtaposition: Can ai models understand the humorous contradictions,” in *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, A. Globerson, L. Mackey, D. Belgrave, A. Fan, U. Paquet, J. Tomczak, and C. Zhang, Eds., vol. 37. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024, pp. 47166–47188. [Online]. Available: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/file/540a6eefb60428c8547a27253f9a2a59-Paper-Conference.pdf 2, 3

[16] L. Ouyang, J. Wu, X. Jiang, D. Almeida, C. Wainwright, P. Mishkin, C. Zhang, S. Agarwal, K. Slama, A. Ray *et al.*, “Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback,” *Advances in neural information processing systems*, vol. 35, pp. 27730–27744, 2022. 2

[17] AI@Meta, “Llama 3 model card,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/meta-llama/llama3/blob/main/MODEL_CARD.md 2, 6, 17

[18] S. Minaee, T. Mikolov, N. Nikzad, M. Chenaghlu, R. Socher, X. Amatriain, and J. Gao, “Large language models: A survey,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.06196*, 2024. 2

[19] S. Yin, C. Fu, S. Zhao, K. Li, X. Sun, T. Xu, and E. Chen, “A survey on multimodal large language models,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.13549*, 2023. 2

[20] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, C. Hallacy, A. Ramesh, G. Goh, S. Agarwal, G. Sastry, A. Askell, P. Mishkin, J. Clark *et al.*, “Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision,” in *International conference on machine learning*. PmLR, 2021, pp. 8748–8763. 2

[21] L. Zheng, W.-L. Chiang, Y. Sheng, S. Zhuang, Z. Wu, Y. Zhuang, Z. Lin, Z. Li, D. Li, E. Xing *et al.*, “Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena,” *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, vol. 36, 2024. 3

[22] Y. Dubois, C. X. Li, R. Taori, T. Zhang, I. Gulrajani, J. Ba, C. Guestrin, P. S. Liang, and T. B. Hashimoto, “Alpacafarm: A simulation framework for methods that learn from human feedback,” *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, vol. 36, 2024. 3

[23] Y. Wang, Z. Yu, Z. Zeng, L. Yang, C. Wang, H. Chen, C. Jiang, R. Xie, J. Wang, X. Xie *et al.*, “Pandalm: An automatic evaluation benchmark for llm instruction tuning optimization,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.05087*, 2023. 3

[24] Y. Huang, Y. Bai, Z. Zhu, J. Zhang, J. Zhang, T. Su, J. Liu, C. Lv, Y. Zhang, Y. Fu *et al.*, “C-eval: A multi-level multi-discipline chinese evaluation suite for foundation models,” *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, vol. 36, 2024. 3

[25] K. Ying, E. Meng, J. Wang, Z. Li, H. Lin, Y. Yang, H. Zhang, W. Zhang, Y. Lin, S. Liu *et al.*, “Mmt-bench: A comprehensive multimodal benchmark for evaluating large vision-language models towards multitask agi,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16006*, 2024. 3

[26] Y. Bitton, H. Bansal, J. Hessel, R. Shao, W. Zhu, A. Awadalla, J. Gardner, R. Taori, and L. Schmidt, “Visit-bench: A benchmark for vision-language instruction following inspired by real-world use,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06595*, 2023. 3

[27] N. Bitton-Guetta, Y. Bitton, J. Hessel, L. Schmidt, Y. Elovici, G. Stanovsky, and R. Schwartz, “Breaking common sense: Whoops! a vision-and-language benchmark of synthetic and compositional images,” in *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision*, 2023, pp. 2616–2627. 3

[28] B. Li, R. Wang, G. Wang, Y. Ge, Y. Ge, and Y. Shan, “Seed-bench: Benchmarking multimodal llms with generative comprehension,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.16125*, 2023. 3

[29] B. Li, Y. Ge, Y. Ge, G. Wang, R. Wang, R. Zhang, and Y. Shan, “Seed-bench-2: Benchmarking multimodal large language models,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17092*, 2023. 3

[30] L. Parcalabescu, M. Cafagna, L. Muradjan, A. Frank, I. Calixto, and A. Gatt, “Valse: A task-independent benchmark for vision and language models centered on linguistic phenomena,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.07566*, 2021. 3

[31] Y. Oh, P. Ahn, J. Kim, G. Song, S. Lee, I. S. Kweon, and J. Kim, “Exploring the spectrum of visio-linguistic compositionality and recognition,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09388*, 2024. 3

[32] D. Roberts and L. Roberts, “Smart vision-language reasoners,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.04212*, 2024. 3

[33] Z. Hu, Y. Ren, J. Li, and Y. Yin, “VIVA: A benchmark for vision-grounded decision-making with human values,” in *Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, Y. Al-Onaizan, M. Bansal, and Y.-N. Chen, Eds. Miami, Florida, USA: Association for Computational Linguistics, Nov. 2024, pp. 2294–2311. [Online]. Available: https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-main.137/ 3

[34] R. Li, S. Sun, M. Elhoseiny, and P. Torr, “Oxfordtvg-hic: Can machine make humorous captions from images?” in *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision*, 2023, pp. 20293–20303. 3

[35] J. Palmer, *Taking humour seriously*. Routledge, 2003. 3

[36] N. De Pisapia, F. Bacci, D. Parrott, and D. Melcher, “Brain networks for visual creativity: a functional connectivity study of planning a visual artwork,” *Scientific reports*, vol. 6, no. 1, p. 39185, 2016. 3

[37] L. Chen and C. M. Lee, “Predicting audience’s laughter using convolutional neural network,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.02584*, 2017. 3

[38] A. Cattle and X. Ma, “Recognizing humour using word associations and humour anchor extraction,” in *Proceedings of the 27th international conference on computational linguistics*, 2018, pp. 1849–1858. 3

[39] D. Yang, A. Lavie, C. Dyer, and E. Hovy, “Humor recognition and humor anchor extraction,” in *Proceedings of the 2015 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing*, 2015, pp. 2367–2376. 3

[40] M. Amin and M. Burghardt, “A survey on approaches to computational humor generation,” in *Proceedings of the 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, S. DeGaetano, A. Kazantseva, N. Reiter, and S. Szpakowicz, Eds. Online: International Committee on Computational Linguistics, Dec. 2020, pp. 29–41. [Online]. Available: https://aclanthology.org/2020.latechclfl-1.4 3

[41] S. Jentzsch and K. Kersting, “Chatgpt is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04563*, 2023. 3

[42] S. Zhong, Z. Huang, S. Gao, W. Wen, L. Lin, M. Zitnik, and P. Zhou, “Let’s think outside the box: Exploring leap-of-thought in large language models with creative humor generation,” in *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*, 2024, pp. 13246–13257. 3

[43] D. Shahaf, E. Horvitz, and R. Mankoff, “Inside jokes: Identifying humorous cartoon captions,” in *Proceedings of the 21th ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining*, 2015, pp. 1065–1074. 3

[44] D. Radev, A. Stent, J. Tetreault, A. Pappu, A. Iliakopoulou, A. Chanfreau, P. de Juan, J. Vallmitjana, A. Jaimes, R. Jha *et al.*, “Humor in collective discourse: Unsupervised funniness detection in the new yorker cartoon caption contest,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.08126*, 2015. 3

[45] V. Jain, F. d. S. A. Feitosa, and G. Kreiman, “Is ai fun? humordb: a curated dataset and benchmark to investigate graphical humor,” *arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.13564*, 2024. 3
