**Table 8**  
BERT score results (precision, recall, and $F_1$) for pun translation from English into Spanish (training data)

| run ID | count | P | R | $F_1$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Olga_ES_BLOOM_1 | 8 | 74.36% | 81.92% | 77.94% |
| Olga_ES_Googletranslator | 644 | 86.26% | 85.93% | 86.07% |
| Olga_ES_BLOOM_2 | 8 | 75.96% | 83.13% | 79.36% |
| LJGG_es_mt5_base_auto | 644 | 83.10% | 81.46% | 82.24% |
| LJGG_es_t5_large_no_label_auto | 644 | 85.61% | 85.05% | 85.30% |
| LJGG_Google_Translator_EN_ES_auto | 626 | 86.81% | 86.40% | 86.59% |
| LJGG_es_mt5_base_no_label_auto | 644 | 83.74% | 81.14% | 82.37% |
| LJGG_es_t5_large_auto | 29 | 79.00% | 76.69% | 77.81% |
| TheLangVerse_j2-grande-finetuned | 644 | 84.66% | 84.43% | 84.52% |
| Smroltra_EN-ES_GPT3 | 8 | 91.01% | 90.23% | 90.62% |
| Smroltra_EN-ES_BLOOM | 8 | 74.37% | 81.93% | 77.95% |
| Smroltra_EN-ES_GoogleTranslation | 644 | 86.27% | 85.96% | 86.10% |
| Smroltra_EN-ES_EasyNMT-Opus | 644 | 86.31% | 86.14% | 86.21% |
| Smroltra_EN-ES_SimpleT5 | 644 | 81.25% | 80.64% | 80.92% |
| Smroltra_EN-ES_EasyNMT-mbart | 644 | 84.04% | 83.94% | 83.97% |
| Croland_EN_ES_GPT3 | 4 | 77.58% | 80.97% | 79.21% |
| ThePunDetectives_EN-ES_OpusMT | 185 | 86.07% | 85.74% | 85.88% |
| ThePunDetectives_EN-ES_M2M100 | 185 | 84.61% | 83.72% | 84.14% |

## 5. Conclusion

In this paper, we have described Task 3 of the JOKER track at CLEF 2024. The task aims to advance the automation of wordplay translation. The EN→FR parallel JOKER corpus we used in the previous edition [12, 4] contained 5,838 French translations of 1,405 distinct English puns. This year, we expanded the corpus by introducing 376 new distinct source texts with 832 corresponding reference translations created by professional French native-speaker translators.

This year, eleven teams submitted 23 runs for Task 3, demonstrating a stable interest from the community in the pun translation task. Participants mainly used LLMs, commercial machine translation engines, and out-of-the-box translation models.

We evaluated the participants’ results using automated measures, specifically BLEU and BERT scores. According to these automatic measures on the test data, the best results were achieved by commercial machine translation models, with Google Translate producing the top results. While on the training data, the fine-tuned models largely outperform Google Translate. The BLEU scores showed a lot of variation across the runs, while the BERT scores produced results that could be grouped into two distinct levels.

To conduct a fine-grained analysis of the generated translations, we evaluated them based on the presence of words or phrases with multiple meanings (pun locations) from the reference texts. To this end, we combined the reference translations in French with pun location annotations from the data created for CLEF 2023 JOKER Task 2 – Pun Location and Interpretation [4, 11]. In general, only a small percentage of translations contain at least one word identified as carrying multiple meanings from the references, despite high BLEU and BERT Scores. For example, Google Translate achieved an 82% BERT Score and 42 BLEU Score, while it shares only 10% of punning words with the references. Fine-tuned models on our training data achieve up to 23% of translations containing at least one pun location word from reference translations, whereas non-fine-tuned models incorporate pun location words in only 11% of cases. These findings closely align with those from the previous year [8, 4]. These observations suggest potential new perspectives for evaluating machine translation performance in handling wordplay.

We observe that the success rate of wordplay translation remains extremely low, even in the case of LLMs. However, one of the major obstacles in the development of wordplay machine translation is its
