[Figure: Histogram with blue bars; y-axis labeled “Frequency”; x-axis approximately 0 to 30; distribution concentrated at low values.]

**Figure 1:** Histogram of translation references in French per English pun (train data)

[Figure: Histogram with blue bars; y-axis labeled “Frequency”; x-axis approximately 0 to 9; distribution concentrated at low values.]

**Figure 2:** Histogram of translation references in French per English pun (test data)

## 3. Participants’ approaches

Ten teams submitted 20 official runs for this task. In addition, the team **Olga** [13] used the data from this task to explore translation from English to Spanish as part of the open task. She submitted three additional runs. Statistics on the runs are summarised in Table 1. The approaches used were as follows:

The **UAms** team [14] submitted two runs. MarianMT – a sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) model based on the Marian framework was used. The second run was based on the T5(t5-base) model with the same standard preprocessing as for the first run.

The **Arampatzis** team submitted six runs for this task employing (among others) MarianMT, Google Translate, Helsinki-NLP Opus, and mBART.

The **Petra&Regina** team [15] submitted a single run. The authors relied on the EasyNMT library, which they used with the Helsinki-NLP Opus-MT model.

The **Tomislav&Rowan** team [16] preprocessed the data and used it to build prompts to translate the jokes with the translation pre-trained model (Helsinki-NLP Opus) through the MarianMT framework. The authors judged that EasyNMT was less effective for this task. Two runs were submitted.

The **Farhan** [17] team provided two runs. They used single-shot prompting techniques with GPT-4 and GPT-4o.

The **Frane** team submitted one run. They used neural machine translation models like MarianMT. The translations were refined with a custom module to preserve the pun elements. This module used bilingual dictionaries and contextual embeddings. A similar approach was taken by the **Dajana&Kathy**
