[9] K. Papineni, S. Roukos, T. Ward, W.-J. Zhu, BLEU: A method for automatic evaluation of machine translation, in: Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2002, pp. 311–318. URL: https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P02-1040. doi:10.3115/1073083.1073135.

[10] T. Zhang\*, V. Kishore\*, F. Wu\*, K. Q. Weinberger, Y. Artzi, Bertscore: Evaluating text generation with bert, in: International Conference on Learning Representations, 2020. URL: https://openreview.net/forum?id=SkeHuCVFDr.

[11] L. Ermakova, T. Miller, A.-G. Bosser, V. M. Palma Preciado, G. Sidorov, A. Jatowt, Overview of JOKER 2023 Automatic Wordplay Analysis Task 2 – pun location and interpretation, in: M. Aliannejadi, G. Faggioli, N. Ferro, M. Vlachos (Eds.), Working Notes of CLEF 2023 – Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, volume 3497 of *CEUR Workshop Proceedings*, 2023, pp. 1804–1817.

[12] L. Ermakova, A.-G. Bosser, A. Jatowt, T. Miller, The JOKER Corpus: English–French parallel data for multilingual wordplay recognition, in: SIGIR ’23: Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, 2023, pp. 2796–2806. doi:10.1145/3539618.3591885.

[13] O. Popova, Comparative Evaluation of Humour Translation from English to Spanish: A Study with BLOOM and Googletrans, in: G. Faggioli, N. Ferro, P. Galuscakova, A. G. Seco de Herrera (Eds.), Working Notes of the Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum (CLEF 2024), CEUR Workshop Proceedings, CEUR-WS.org, 2024.

[14] L. Buijs, M. Cazemier, E. Schuurman, J. Kamps, University of Amsterdam at the CLEF 2024 Joker Track, in: G. Faggioli, N. Ferro, P. Galuscakova, A. García Seco de Herrera (Eds.), Working Notes of CLEF 2024 – Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, 2024.

[15] R. Elagina, P. Vučić, Convergential approach in machine learning for effective humour analysis and translation, in: G. Faggioli, N. Ferro, P. Galuscakova, A. García Seco de Herrera (Eds.), Working Notes of CLEF 2024 – Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, 2024.

[16] R. Mann, T. Mikulandric, CLEF 2024 JOKER Tasks 1–3: Humour identification and classification, in: G. Faggioli, N. Ferro, P. Galuscakova, A. García Seco de Herrera (Eds.), Working Notes of CLEF 2024 – Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, 2024.

[17] F. Dhanani, R. Abbas, Translating English puns to French, in: G. Faggioli, N. Ferro, P. Galuscakova, A. García Seco de Herrera (Eds.), Working Notes of CLEF 2024 – Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, 2024.

[18] D. P. Varadi, A. Bartulović, JOKER 2024 by AB&DPV: From ‘LOL’ to ‘MDR’ using AI models to retrieve and translate puns, in: G. Faggioli, N. Ferro, P. Galuscakova, A. García Seco de Herrera (Eds.), Working Notes of CLEF 2024 – Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, 2024.

[19] H. Baguian, H. N. Ashley, JOKER Track @ CLEF 2024: The Jokesters’ approaches for retrieving, classifying, and translating wordplay, in: G. Faggioli, N. Ferro, P. Galuscakova, A. García Seco de Herrera (Eds.), Working Notes of CLEF 2024 – Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, 2024.

[20] M. Post, A call for clarity in reporting BLEU scores, in: Proceedings of the Third Conference on Machine Translation: Research Papers, Association for Computational Linguistics, Belgium, Brussels, 2018, pp. 186–191. URL: https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W18-6319.
