Spanish achieved 18% [8]. The challenge of translating wordplay even between well-studied languages with the use of LLMs, highlights the need for increased community focus on this difficult task.

This year eleven teams submitted 23 runs for Task 3 showing stable interest of the community in the pun translation task. Note that six submissions were made by translators rather than computer scientists (teams **Olga** and **UBO**).

In the following sections, we describe the data preparation process (Section 2) and participants’ approaches (Section 3), and then present an analysis of their results (Section 4). In addition to the traditional machine translation evaluation measures, such as BLEU [9] and BERT Score [10], we examined the participants’ performances using the dataset we created to identify words or phrases that have multiple meanings (pun locations) for the CLEF 2023 JOKER Task 2 [11, 4, 12]. Besides the official results of the translation into French, we describe the results of a team who submitted translations into Spanish which we compare with last year’s participants’ results. Section 5 concludes the paper.

## 2. Data

The data is an extension of the JOKER parallel wordplay corpus [12]. The training data for Task 3 consists of 1,405 English wordplay instances, with a total of 5,838 professional human French translations. The maximum number of reference translations per English pun is 29. 72% of English puns have multiple reference translations. The histogram of the test references per English pun is shown in Figure 1.

The test files shared with participants consist of 4,501 English wordplay instances, in JSON format. Over these English puns, we used new 376 distinct source texts with 832 corresponding reference translations created by professional French native speaker translators. The maximum number of reference translations per English pun is eight. However, the majority of source texts have a single reference translation. The histogram of the test references per English pun is given in Figure 2. An example of the source data is as follows:

    {
        "id_en":   "en_1007",
        "text_en": "Save the whales, spouted Tom."
    }

The corresponding human reference translations are as follows:

    {
        "text_fr": "\"Il faut sauver les baleines\", jeta Tom avant de se tasser."
    },
    {
        "text_fr": "\"Il faut sauver les baleines\", interjeta Tom."
    },
    {
        "text_fr": "Moi je sauve les baleines, Tom s’en venta."
    },
    {
        "text_fr":"Louis évent-a le projet de sauvetage des baleines."
    },
    {
        "text_fr":"\"Sauvez les baleines\", proclama Tom à tout évent."
    },
    {
        "text_fr":"\"Sauvez les baleines, cracha Toto, Cétacé!\""
    }
