# Overview of the CLEF 2024 JOKER Task 3: Translate puns from English to French

Liana Ermakova<sup>1,\*</sup>, Anne-Gwenn Bosser<sup>2</sup>, Tristan Miller<sup>3,4</sup> and Adam Jatowt<sup>5</sup>

<sup>1</sup>*Université de Bretagne Occidentale, HCTI, France*  
<sup>2</sup>*École Nationale d’Ingénieurs de Brest, Lab-STICC CNRS UMR 6285, France*  
<sup>3</sup>*Department of Computer Science, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada*  
<sup>4</sup>*Austrian Research Institute for Artificial Intelligence (OFAI), Vienna, Austria*  
<sup>5</sup>*University of Innsbruck, Austria*

## Abstract

This paper provides a comprehensive overview of Task 3 of the CLEF 2024 JOKER track on automatic humourous analysis. The overarching objective of the JOKER track series is to facilitate collaboration among linguists, translators, and computer scientists to advance the development of automatic interpretation, generation, and translation of wordplay. Task 3 specifically concentrates on the automatic translation of puns from English into French. This overview outlines the overall structure of the shared task we organised as part of the CLEF 2024 evaluation campaign. We discuss the approaches employed by the participants and present and analyse the results they achieved. We also describe the work of participants who used our data to translate puns from English to Spanish as part of the open task of the track.

## Keywords

wordplay, puns, computational humour, machine translation

# 1. Introduction

This paper describes Task 3 of the CLEF 2024 JOKER<sup>1</sup> challenge, where the goal is to accurately translate puns between different languages. This is the final task of JOKER-2024 [1], following Tasks 1 [2] and 2 [3] on humour-aware information retrieval and humour classification according to genre and technique, respectively. The overall objective of the JOKER track series [4, 5], which started in 2022, is to facilitate collaboration among linguists, translators, and computer scientists to advance the development of automatic interpretation, generation, and translation of wordplay. Thus, this is the third edition of the JOKER track, with the pun translation task being its oldest and ultimate challenge.

A pun is a form of wordplay that exploits multiple meanings of a word or words with similar sounds but different meanings. Puns pose challenges in translation, as they often rely on language-specific nuances that may not have direct equivalents in other languages. Nonetheless, it can be important to preserve wordplay in the target text, even if the exact type of wordplay or the specific pun is changed. In Task 3, the goal is to translate English punning jokes into French. The translations should aim to preserve, to the extent possible, both the form and meaning of the original wordplay – that is, to implement the pun→pun strategy described in Delabastita’s typology of pun translation strategies [6, 7]. For example, “I used to be a banker but I lost interest” might be rendered into French as “*j’ai été banquier mais j’en ai perdu tout l’intérêt*”. This fairly straightforward translation preserves the pun, since *interest* and *intérêt* share the same double meaning.

In the previous editions of the JOKER track, we observed that the success rate of wordplay translation is extremely low even in the case of LLMs, for both language pairs: English-French and English-Spanish [8]. For example, the highest success rate of translations that preserved both the form and sense of the original wordplay in the manually evaluated CLEF 2023 JOKER test set was 6% for French, while

---

*CLEF 2024: Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, September 9–12, 2024, Grenoble, France*  
<sup>\*</sup>Corresponding author.  
0000-0002-7598-7474 (L. Ermakova); 0000-0002-0442-2660 (A. Bosser); 0000-0002-0749-1100 (T. Miller); 0000-0001-7235-0665 (A. Jatowt)  
© 2024 Copyright for this paper by its authors. Use permitted under Creative Commons License Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0).  
<sup>1</sup>https://www.joker-project.com
