[Figure: Histogram with blue bars showing frequency of distinct pun locations in French per English pun; y-axis labeled “Frequency”.]

**Figure 3:** Histogram of distinct pun locations in French per English pun (train data)

For each English pun, we computed a boolean value that is *True* if the corresponding French translation contains at least one word from the set of locations corresponding to that English pun. We considered only exact string matches. The participants’ results in terms of translations containing locations are presented in Table 6. As the overlap between the JOKER 2023 Task 2 pun location data and the test data of Task 3 of this year is small, the results are close to zero and are not entirely interpretable. However, on the training data, we observed similar results between the non-fine-tuned MarianMT and Google Translate. The T5 and MarianMT models fine-tuned by **UAmS** [14] on our data show improved overlap with the punning words in the reference translations. The fine-tuned MarianMT [14] includes nearly twice as many translations containing location terms compared to T5. The fine-tuned MarianMT [14] achieves a higher BLEU score than T5, whereas the BERT Score shows the opposite trend. The BLEU score of both GPT-based runs submitted by the **Farbhan** team [17] is notably low, as are the BERT Scores. However, one of the GPT-based runs has a higher number of locations than Google Translate, while another is close to the encoder-decoder model M2M100. In general, only a small percentage of translations contain at least one word identified as carrying multiple meanings in references. Models, fine-tuned on our training data achieve a maximum of 23% of translations containing at least one pun location word from reference translations. In contrast, non-fine-tuned models use pun location words in only 11% of cases. These results closely mirror those obtained last year [8, 4]. According to manual evaluation of the JOKER 2023 participants’ runs, the highest success rate for preserving both the form and sense of the original wordplay in translations from English to French was 6% over the total evaluated test set. For the training set, the percentage of successful translations was less than 17%. These observations could open up new perspectives for the evaluation of machine translation in handling wordplay.

### 4.3. Translation into Spanish

The team **Olga** [13] submitted three additional runs providing translations of English puns into Spanish. The translations into Spanish were generated by the commercial translation engine Google Translate and the LLM BLOOM with few-shot prompting. Both BLOOM runs were partial.

We provide the evaluation of her submissions in comparison with last year’s participants’ results on the train data as we have not constructed new references in Spanish this year. However, as the models used by **Olga** have not been trained on our data, last year’s train references are not problematic. For this evaluation, we used 215 puns in English with 644 corresponding references.

Tables 7 and 8 display the results obtained on the CLEF 2023 JOKER training data for the participants of both 2023 and 2024. For the details of the previous year’s runs refer to the corresponding JOKER overview papers [4, 8] and participants’ working notes respectively.

Among the runs submitted in 2023, those using mBART, OpusMT, and Google Translate produced
