**Table 1**  
Statistics on the runs submitted for Task 3

| Team | # of submitted runs |
|---|---:|
| UAms | 2 |
| Arampatziz | 6 |
| AB&DPV | 1 |
| Petra&Regina | 1 |
| Tomislav&Rowan | 2 |
| Farhan | 2 |
| Frane | 1 |
| Dajana&Kathy | 1 |
| Jokester | 1 |
| UBO | 3 |
| Olga | 3 |
| Total | 23 |

team.

The **AB&DPV** team [18] used simple prompts with Llama-2-7b and reported that in a number of instances the translations were found to be incomplete or mixing two languages. They submitted a single run.

The **Jokester** [19] team submitted one run. They also used the MarianMT framework.

The **UBO** team submitted three semi-manual runs using commercial models such as DeepL, Google Translate, and ChatGPT.

The **Olga** team [13] submitted three runs as part of the open task. The team explored the topic of translating humour from English to Spanish, comparing the BLOOM model with Google Translate. For the BLOOM translations, two different prompts were employed. We provide a comparison of her runs with the CLEF JOKER 2023 participants [4, 8] as this year we did not have a shared task on translation into Spanish.

## 4. Results

### 4.1. General results

Tables 2 and 3 show the results on the test data while Tables 4 and 5 display the results obtained on the training data for the pun translation task from English into French.

We evaluated the runs with the following machine translation metrics:

**BLEU** (BiLingual Evaluation Understudy), which measures the vocabulary overlap between the candidate translation and a reference translation [9]. We used the sacreBLEU implementation<sup>2</sup> with the default tokeniser 13a which mimics the mteval-v13a script from Moses [20]. We report the BLEU score (harmonic mean) and the BLEU precisions for n-grams on 376 distinct English texts with corresponding 832 reference translations to French.

**BERT Score** from the Python bert-score package<sup>3</sup> [10]. We report mean values of BERT score precision, recall, and $F_1$ over all 832 references.

We make the following observations. First, the best results were obtained by participants who used the commercially produced machine translation engines (such as Google Translate and DeepL) integrated into SDL studio. The MarianMT models, which are similar to BART, showed very similar results. Second, the same models fine-tuned by different teams achieved different scores. Third, the

<sup>2</sup>https://github.com/mjpost/sacrebleu/  
<sup>3</sup>https://pypi.org/project/bert-score/
