## Experiments

Our procedure of humor generation consists of multiple steps. These are relying on multiple assumptions on what might help GPT-4 to generate better humor. Among the latter are steps inspired by methodology of creative problem solving and policy inferred from human jokes. In order to validate different assumptions behind our humor generation process, we perform ablation studies. Namely, we setup human evaluation of jokes generated by the following schemes:

1. *[zero-shot]* Ask GPT-4 to generate a joke on given topic
2. *[no-assoc]* Ask GPT-4 to generate a joke on topic given humor-generation policy
3. *[assoc-v1]* Ask GPT-4 to generate a joke on topic given associations from step 2 in Algorithm 1 and policy
4. *[assoc-v2]* Ask GPT-4 to generate a joke on topic given associations from step 3 in Algorithm 1 and policy
5. *[full]* Ask GPT-4 to generate a joke on topic given associations from step 4 in Algorithm 1 and policy

## Results

Results of human evaluation are reported in Table 2. Quality-wise full Algorithm 1 is on par with zero-shot GPT-4 if we look at how often text looks like a joke (*IsJoke* column) or even better if we consider average funniness (*Funniness* column). It also produces texts that are understandable more often.

Anecdotally, average funniness and a fraction of jokes among produced texts are consistently higher than those in human jokes from a subsample of **ReJ** dataset. The latter also has way more offensive jokes, even after filtration using OpenAI Moderation API. We speculate, the observed effect may partially result from the subjectivity of a humor. Indeed, Weller and Seppi (2019) and Baranov, Kniazhevsky, and Braslavski (2023) mention that humorousness scores for **ReJ** dataset obtained from Reddit users’ votes and assessors are quite different.

We also note, that despite promising results, the distribution of funniness scores hints that humor is challenging both for humans and modern language models (Figure 2). The exact cause of this—whether it’s due to the subjectivity of humor, which widely used methodologies overlook, the internal mechanics of humor, or another factor—is currently uncertain.

### Novelty of generated jokes

Of particular importance is also the fact that the proposed algorithm significantly boosts the generation of novel jokes. Indeed, among jokes produced by GPT-4 in the zero-shot regime, more than a quarter were labeled as already known by human annotators, which parallels with the findings of Jentzsch and Kersting (2023). Our method lowers this number roughly by one-third, resulting in 17.6% of jokes labeled as already known and, correspondingly, 82.4% of previously unknown jokes. Of course, the actual fraction of novel jokes is expected to be lower since it depends on the individual knowledge of annotators. However, the observed difference is big enough to claim that Algorithm 1 results in a higher fraction of novel humor. This also opens a room for speculation on what is needed to encourage modern LLMs to deliver genuinely creative outcomes beyond the “average manifold”.

### Ablation studies

According to results presented in Table 2, the entire pipeline produces texts that are, on average, more understandable, funny, and novel compared to results from partial pipelines. The price for this is a higher fraction of offensive texts, probably due to stronger tension between combined and refined associations. There is also evidence that associations are an essential part of the pipeline, and the humor-generation policy inferred from the data alone is insufficient to improve zero-shot quality significantly. On the other hand, due to the small sample size, some of the observed differences in numbers are on the border of significance, so it’s important to be careful when drawing conclusions.

### Funniness of generated jokes

Distributions of funniness for jokes generated using the entire pipeline and subsample of jokes from **ReJ** dataset. As mentioned above, our pipeline, on average, produces funnier jokes than human jokes from **ReJ**. On the other hand, the amount of high-quality jokes (funniness $\in \{4,5\}$) is negligible. This can be attributed to humor’s subjectivity and complexity. Indeed, the inter-annotator agreement, as measured by the average variance of funniness scores, is quite low.

### Significance of results

Given limited joke samples labeled by human annotators, we may hope to be able to detect only significant disparities in the quality of joke-producing algorithms. To test statistical significance of observed differences in distributions of scores, we apply Mann-Whitney U rank test (Mann and Whitney 1947) to funniness, joke, understandable and known scores from annotators. Despite small sample sizes, p-values obtained in the test support main conclusions made above.

Indeed, p-values for testing difference in **funniness scores** of *full* algorithm vs naive *zero-shot* gpt-4 prompting and *reddit* jokes are 6.89% and 0.001%. The test is performed on funniness scores averaged over annotators for each example. If we perform test on all scores without averaging, corresponding p-values become 2.93% and 0.00002%. Testing the difference in **joke scores** shows significant results only against *reddit* jokes, p-value for testing *full* algorithm vs *reddit* jokes is 0.0004%; p-values for testing difference in distribution of **understandable scores** of *full* algorithm vs naive *zero-shot* gpt-4 prompting and *reddit* jokes are 2.8% and 0.008%; p-values for testing difference in distribution of **known scores** of *full* algorithm vs naive *zero-shot* gpt-4 prompting, *no-assoc* ablation and *reddit* jokes are 0.0008%, 0.46% and 0.002%.

We conclude, that improvement of novelty of jokes in the proposed algorithm is statistically significant. There is also
