## References

Aaronson, S. 2009. Essentials of complexity-theoretic stand-up comedy. https://scottaaronson.blog/?p=414.

Agafonova, Y.; Tikhonov, A.; and Yamshchikov, I. P. 2020. Paranoid transformer: Reading narrative of madness as computational approach to creativity. *Future Internet* 12(11).

Amir, O., and Biederman, I. 2016. The neural correlates of humor creativity. *Front. Hum. Neurosci.* 10:597.

Arora, S., and Goyal, A. 2023. A theory for emergence of complex skills in language models. https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15936.

Attardo, S. 1994. *Linguistic Theories of Humor*. Berlin, New York: De Gruyter Mouton.

Baranov, A.; Kniazhevsky, V.; and Braslavski, P. 2023. You told me that joke twice: A systematic investigation of transferability and robustness of humor detection models. *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing* 13701–13715.

Bender, E. M.; Gebru, T.; McMillan-Major, A.; and Shmitchell, S. 2021. On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be too big? *Proceedings of the 2021 ACM conference on fairness, accountability, and transparency* 610–623.

Chen, Y.; Shi, B.; and Si, M. 2023. Prompt to gpt-3: Step-by-step thinking instructions for humor generation. *14th International Conference on Computational Creativity.*

Cozman, F., and Munhoz, H. 2020. The winograd schemas from hell. In *Proceedings of the 17th National Meeting on Artificial and Computational Intelligence*, 531–542. Porto Alegre, RS, Brasil: SBC.

Di Fede, G.; Rocchesso, D.; Dow, S. P.; and Andolina, S. 2022. The idea machine: Llm-based expansion, rewriting, combination, and suggestion of ideas. *Proceedings of the 14th Conference on Creativity and Cognition* 623–627.

Hessel, J.; Marasović, A.; Hwang, J. D.; Lee, L.; Da, J.; Zellers, R.; Mankoff, R.; and Choi, Y. 2023. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor ”understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest.

Hinton, G., and Ng, A. 2023. A conversation about ai risk. https://twitter.com/AndrewYNg/status/1667920020587020290?lang=en.

Hupkes, D.; Dankers, V.; Mul, M.; and Bruni, E. 2020. Compositionality decomposed: how do neural networks generalise? *Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research* 67:757–795.

Hurley, M. M.; Dennett, D. C.; and Adams, R. B. J. 2011. *Inside Jokes: Using Humor to Reverse-Engineer the Mind*. The MIT Press.

Inácio, M.; Wick-pedro, G.; and Goncalo Oliveira, H. 2023. What do humor classifiers learn? an attempt to explain humor recognition models. In Degagtano-Ortlieb, S.; Kazantseva, A.; Reiter, N.; and Szpakowicz, S., eds., *Proceedings of the 7th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, 88–98. Dubrovnik, Croatia: Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jentzsch, S., and Kersting, K. 2023. Chatgpt is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models. *Proceedings of the 13th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment, and Social Media Analysis* 325–340.

Koestler, A. 1964. *The Act of Creation: A Study of Conscious and Unconscious Processes of Humor, Scientific Discovery and Art.*

Loakman, T.; Maladry, A.; and Lin, C. 2023. The iron(ic) melting pot: Reviewing human evaluation in humour, irony and sarcasm generation. *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023* 6676–6689.

Mann, H. B., and Whitney, D. R. 1947. On a Test of Whether one of Two Random Variables is Stochastically Larger than the Other. *The Annals of Mathematical Statistics* 18(1):50–60.

Michaud, E. J.; Liu, Z.; Girit, U.; and Tegmark, M. 2023. The quantization model of neural scaling. *37th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems.*

Mihalcea, and Strapparava. 2005. Making computers laugh: Investigations in automatic humor recognition. *Proceedings of Human Language Technology Conference and Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing* 531–538.

Savage, B. M.; Lujan, H. L.; Thipparthi, R. R.; and DiCarlo, S. E. 2017. Humor, laughter, learning, and health! a brief review. *Advances in physiology education.* 341—347.

Smith, W.; Harrington, K. V.; and Neck, C. P. 2000. Resolving conflict with humor in a diversity context. *Journal of Managerial Psychology* Vol. 15 No. 6:606—625.

Summers-Stay, D.; Voss, C. R.; and Lukin, S. M. 2023. Brainstorm, then select: a generative language model improves its creativity score.

Sun, J.; Narayan-Chen, A.; Oraby, S.; Cervone, A.; Chung, T.; Huang, J.; Liu, Y.; and Peng, N. 2022. Explanations: Augmenting puns with keywords and explanations. *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing* 4590–4605.

Szegedy, C. 2024. https://twitter.com/ChrSzegedy/status/1750196565409701979.

Tikhonov, A., and Yamshchikov, I. 2023. Post Turing: Mapping the landscape of LLM evaluation. In Gehrmann, S.; Wang, A.; Sedoc, J.; Clark, E.; Dhole, K.; Chandu, K. R.; Santus, E.; and Sedghamiz, H., eds., *Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Natural Language Generation, Evaluation, and Metrics (GEM)*, 398–412. Singapore: Association for Computational Linguistics.

Toplyn, J. 2014. *Comedy Writing for Late-Night TV: How to Write Monologue Jokes, Desk Pieces, Sketches, Parodies, Audience Pieces, Remotes, and Other Short-Form Comedy.*

Toplyn, J. 2021. Witscript: A system for generating improvised jokes in a conversation. In *Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Computational Creativity (ICCC ’21).*
