offer several key elements that could contribute to progress in this area. We attempt to advance the humor generation by building upon the following principles:

First, given the diversity of existing humor theories and lack of agreement on the ingredients of successful jokes (Warren, Barsky, and McGraw 2021), we propose to utilize a data-driven approach. Namely, we hypothesize that similar to Reinforcement Learning, which reconstructs the agent policy from observations, and also Inverse Reinforcement Learning, which attempts to reconstruct rewards directly from the roll-outs, it is possible - with the help of modern LLMs - to **infer the policy of humor generation directly from the dataset of jokes.**

Second, **we utilize a technique inspired by methodologies of creative problem solving to brainstorm associations** given a seed topic. The latter is used with the humor generation policy to generate novel jokes.

Lastly, we believe that human evaluation of results and ablations is essential to advance the field. With this in mind **we perform a broad human assessment of generated jokes** using the ScaleAI platform and compare the quality of the resulting synthetic dataset with the quality of existing human-generated humor. Since LLMs are often blamed for producing memorized results, **we pay particular attention to the novelty of generated jokes.** Full human evaluation results are published to facilitate further research on humor in the community. ¹

## Related work

The topic of machine-produced novel jokes is deeply rooted in many fields of science, including creativity theory, neuroscience, learning and generalization theory, and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) in Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing. In the current section, we briefly touch on some of the results which serve as a foundation and inspiration for the present paper.

The connection between humor and creativity is widely discussed in the literature. Generating novel jokes involves making non-obvious and creative associations and connections between different concepts and pieces of knowledge and further combining them using various techniques or “skills” (Koestler 1964; Warren, Barsky, and McGraw 2021). The relation between humor appreciation and generation and high-level semantic regions of the brain where remote associations are converging is also discussed in the neuroscience experiments (Amir and Biederman 2016).

Thus, the question of whether machines can generate novel high-quality jokes is connected with a question of “*Can AI be as creative as Humans?*”. In the fields of Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing, the latter is a subject of hot debates among researchers, and currently, there has yet to be a consensus on the topic (Bender et al. 2021; Hinton and Ng 2023; Wang et al. 2024).

The composition of multiple concepts and skills to produce and comprehend novel concepts is thought to be a key ingredient for inducing capability of true out-of-distribution generalization (Hupkes et al. 2020; Arora and Goyal 2023; Yu et al. 2023; Wang et al. 2024). Papers aiming at explaining the scaling laws of LLMs also propose to view the capabilities of these models in the light of “skill quantization” - decomposing capabilities into basic build blocks or ”quanta” which can be combined to solve new problems (Michaud et al. 2023).

In the Natural Language Processing field, numerous examples address the problems of humor comprehension and generation. An excellent review of the humor datasets and literature is done by Baranov, Kniazhevsky, and Braslavski (2023). Loakman, Maladry, and Lin (2023) review the problem of humor evaluation and discuss ingredients of humor, sarcasm, and irony. Sun et al. (2022) attempt to advance the field by annotating a humor dataset with fine-grained human explanations of what makes a joke funny. Veale (2001) gives an overview of the problem of producing machines that are capable of generating and comprehending jokes.

Notable examples of attempts to generate humor, closely aligned with our work, were done by Chen, Shi, and Si (2023) and Toplyn (2021; 2022; 2023). These papers suggest a step-by-step process to generate jokes based on Toplyn’s system (Toplyn 2014). While Chen, Shi, and Si (2023) do not perform human evaluation of the quality of generated content, Toplyn’s papers demonstrate encouraging evidence from human assessors, that an AI system may improvise conversational jokes.

Another relevant study to us, done by Hessel et al. (2023), demonstrates, that GPT-4 is capable of explaining the mechanics of jokes, although human-written explanations are still preferred by human annotators.

Large language models are also used in creativity support tools, assisting humans in tasks that require generating and combining new ideas. Di Fede et al. (2022) introduce the “Idea Machine”, an LLM-based tool that helps to generate ideas for inspiration and combine and refine existing ideas. Summers-Stay, Voss, and Lukin (2023) present a somewhat similar method giving possibility to *brainstorm* ideas and further *select* best ideas based on some selection criteria.

## Methods

Our goal is to to reconstruct the mechanics of humor and obtain a humor generation policy in a fully data-driven way. Overview of the proposed procedure is presented in Figure 1. We base our method on a series of assumptions outlined below. In the following we also sacrifice mathematical precision for simplicity.

**Assumption 1.** *Human preferences for humorous texts exist.*

This means it is possible either to define a scalar scoring function (reward function in RL terminology) acting on single texts defining *funniness* of the latter $R_{humor}(text) \mapsto R_{humor}$ or a function $P_{humor}(text1,text2)$ on pairs of texts defining the probability that the first text is more funny than the second.

This is quite a strong assumption given the subjective nature of humor. Obviously, human preferences vary a lot depending on e.g. cultural background, personal views and knowledge. Therefore, strictly speaking, the above probability should be conditioned on culture or even concrete group

¹ https://github.com/altsoph/humor-mechanics
