# Humor Mechanics: Advancing Humor Generation with Multistep Reasoning

**Alexey Tikhonov\* and Pavel Shtykovskiy\***  
Inworld.AI  
altsoph@gmail.com

## Abstract

In this paper, we explore the generation of one-liner jokes through multi-step reasoning. Our work involved reconstructing the process behind creating humorous one-liners and developing a working prototype for humor generation. We conducted comprehensive experiments with human participants to evaluate our approach, comparing it with human-created jokes, zero-shot GPT-4 generated humor, and other baselines. The evaluation focused on the quality of humor produced, using human labeling as a benchmark. Our findings demonstrate that the multi-step reasoning approach consistently improves the quality of generated humor. We present the results and share the datasets used in our experiments, offering insights into enhancing humor generation with artificial intelligence.

## Introduction

Humor is ubiquitous in the everyday life of humans and plays a crucial role in many parts of our lives, from social interactions and well-being (Smith, Harrington, and Neck 2000; Savage et al. 2017) to giving successful science talks (Aaronson 2009). It is often referred to as one of the measures of human intelligence (Hurley, Dennett, and Adams 2011). Generating new jokes or fitting old jokes in relevant contexts is also a skill that not everyone can master.

Despite the abundance of literature on humor theory, the precise essence of this concept continues to be elusive. First known discussions of humor nature in literature date back at least to the times of Greek Philosophers Aristotle and Plato (Attardo 1994). Warren, Barsky, and McGraw (2021) refer to more than 20 distinct humor theories attempting to explain humor appreciation. They group theories into three large sub-groups focusing on incongruity, superiority, and relief. Incongruity-based theories stress the importance of multiple simultaneous meanings and mismatches between the expectation and reality. Superiority theories suggest a connection between humor appreciation and aggression, and relief theories propose a relationship between humor appreciation and a reduction in arousal or tension. At the same time, there is no consensus on the importance of different antecedents and precise definitions, and various theories often use the same name to describe different ingredients. For instance, while in some works, “incongruity” is referred to as the presence of something unexpected, in other works, it’s defined as the presence of something threatening or simultaneously holding conflicting ideas (Warren, Barsky, and McGraw 2021).

The importance of humor in society and its complexity makes it one of the holy grails of natural language generation. Within the latter, humor is mentioned by some authors as an AI-complete problem (Hurley, Dennett, and Adams 2011).

With the rise of large language models, there is hope that we can make a significant leap in computational creativity (Agafonova, Tikhonov, and Yamshchikov 2020). However, recent results show that this task remains challenging even for powerful modern LLMs. In humor comprehension, Baranov, Kniazhevsky, and Braslavski (2023) show that, while modern models may achieve impressive results on humor datasets, their performance on out-of-domain texts is unstable. Authors hypothesize that this may hint that some of the models overfit to specific features of datasets while others learn non-specific humor characteristics. (Inácio, Wick-pedro, and Goncalo Oliveira 2023) discovered similar results, indicating that models often rely on stylistic features of the text not necessarily related to humor, such as punctuation and question words. On the other hand, in humor generation, (Jentzsch and Kersting 2023) show that over 90% of the 1008 jokes generated by ChatGPT were the same 25 Jokes. This resonates with debates in the scientific community on whether current LLMs can produce truly creative content and go beyond ”stochastic parrots” (Bender et al. 2021). Hinton and Ng (2023) also claim that lack of consensus on this topic among researchers is a significant obstacle in the ongoing dialogue about AI risks.

In this paper, we revisit the capabilities of LLMs in producing high-quality, diverse, and novel humor. Since humor is an umbrella term covering many different phenomena, we narrowed the current study to a specific form of humor, namely one-liners. These are short, concise jokes or witty remarks typically consisting of one or two sentences.

We hypothesize that, while modern LLMs generate standard memorized wits when asked directly to produce a joke, they also possess the skills required to produce novel jokes. Rigorously testing this hypothesis presents significant challenges and falls beyond the scope of this paper. Instead, we

\* Equal contribution
