posed scheme for future work.

We further discuss in detail pipelines for obtaining prompts $P_{humor-policy}$ and $P_{associations}$ and generating novel humor.

## Inferring humor-generation policy

In order to reconstruct the mechanics of humor into prompt $P_{humor-policy}$, representing humor-generating policy, we opt for the following procedure.

1. **Create a seed dataset of high-quality jokes**  
   To create a seed dataset, we took 100 random one-liners from the “16000 OneLiners” dataset, (Mihalcea and Strapparava 2005). We ranked them with human assessors, comparing them in a pairwise manner. We used ten assessors per pair to avoid individual biases and achieve some generic preferences. Then, we aggregated pairwise scores into global ranks and used the top 30 jokes.

2. **Decompose each joke independently into building blocks using GPT-4**  
   The goal was to extract the logic and principles used in each joke first. Prompts used to decompose jokes and distill decompositions into the policy can be found in Appendix A. Sample decompositions of jokes, and the final humor generation policy containing obtained humor principles can be found in Appendix A (section *Prompt to generate joke based on topic and list of associations*).

3. **Generalize building blocks into policy using GPT-4**  
   Finally, we concatenated all results from previous steps and asked GPT-4 to distill them into $P_{humor-policy}$ – a set of universal rules frequently used in humor constructions.

## Step-by-step generation of jokes

The humor generation policy from the previous step is further used to produce novel jokes. Our pipeline consists of a few steps inspired by methodologies in creative problem solving (Di Fede et al. 2022; Summers-Stay, Voss, and Lukin 2023). All steps apart from the first one are performed by prompting GPT-4. A topic selection is made by randomly selecting from the top 10,000 most frequent English words (excluding profanity, stopwords and words less than 4 letters long).

**Algorithm 1** Step-by-step generation of jokes

1: **Select a topic of joke**  
2: **Generate 20 associations to a topic**  
3: **Expand associations**  
4: **Combine and refine associations into final prompt** $P_{associations}$  
5: **Make a joke based on input topic, associations prompt $P_{associations}$ and humor policy prompt $P_{humor-policy}$**

Prompts used in steps 1-4 are published in Appendix B. Table 1 shows examples of generated jokes. Table 3 gives an example output from different steps.

## Human evaluation

NLG evaluation in the epoch of LLMs is known to be quite challenging (Tikhonov and Yamshchikov 2023). Since humor comprehension continues to be a tough problem for modern NLP systems and because of humor’s inevitable subjectivity, evaluating the quality of machine-generated humor is even more difficult. On the other hand, proper benchmarking of generated humor is critical in the analysis, and the lack of it would make drawing any conclusions virtually impossible. Therefore, we decided to rely on human annotation, a gold standard in evaluating NLG systems.

**Evaluating generated jokes.** To benchmark the humor generation capabilities of the proposed scheme, we collect human ratings from native English speakers using the annotation platform ScaleAI. We used five different assessors for each label to avoid individual biases of annotators. We adopt, when possible, the labeling guidelines from Sun et al. (2022). Our annotation procedure is as follows. First, we filter generated jokes using OpenAI Moderation API² with a threshold on harassment equal to 0.02.

Jokes selected for annotation are labeled using the following workflow (order preserved):

- [Understandable] Mark whether you understood the meaning of the text.

  *If you don’t understand the meaning of the text (regardless of whether or not it should be perceived as funny), rate the sample as "No" (didn’t understand). If you rate this sample as "No" (didn’t understand), skip the rest of the annotation for this sample.*

- [Offensive / Inappropriate] Mark whether you find the text offensive or inappropriate, meaning the text is racist or is biased against marginalized groups, or is generally offensive.

  *Rate the sample as "No" for not offensive and as "Yes" for offensive. If you rate this sample as "Yes" (is offensive), you may optionally skip the rest of the annotation for this sample.*

- [Is a joke?] Mark whether you think the text is intended to be a joke, even if it is not funny.

  *Use "No" if it’s not a joke, "Yes" if it’s a joke. The text should be labeled as "Yes" (a joke) even if it intends to be humorous but falls flat or is a lame/bad joke.*

  *Example: text labeled "No" (not a joke): "All that glistens is not gold." Example: text labeled "Yes" (is a joke): "These are my parents, said Einstein relatively."*

  *If you rate this sample as "No" (not a joke), skip the rest of the annotation for this sample.*

- [Have you heard that joke before?] Mark whether you think you heard this joke before.

- [Funniness] Rate funniness on a scale of 1-5 (1 very not funny, 5 very funny).

  *score of 1: A very not funny joke consists of a joke that is not funny or tries to be funny but does not achieve the intended effect.*

²https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/moderation
