| Method | Understandable | Offensive | IsJoke | Funniness | Known | Count |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| *zero-shot* | 88% | 9% | **84%** | 2.56 | 27% | 100 |
| *no-assoc* | 88% | 10% | 81% | 2.66 | 24% | 120 |
| *assoc-v1* | 91% | 8% | 83% | 2.67 | 19% | 120 |
| *assoc-v2* | 90% | **7%** | 80% | 2.55 | 20% | 120 |
| *full* | **93%** | 11% | **84%** | **2.72** | **18%** | 120 |
| *reddit* | 84% | 20% | 72% | 2.38 | 27% | 156 |

Table 2: Quality evaluation of generated jokes and ablation studies. Each aspect of each joke was assessed by at least 5 annotators, so the resulting scores are aggregated from 500+ individual labels. Reported numbers are averages over individual annotators values (note that e.g. count 120 means that 120 texts were annotated 5 times each).

indication that average funniness of jokes becomes higher, although the support of this conclusion is not very strong.

We expect, that obtained results depend not only on sample size, but also on the amount of people involved into annotation and their cultural background. Unfortunately, we don’t have access to such information and can only note, that taking it into account is important for future studies.

## Discussion and future work

Large language models have proven to be very powerful tools in natural language generation, so it’s appealing to apply them to the long-standing problem of humor generation. Previous works (Jentzsch and Kersting 2023) have demonstrated that powerful models in zero-shot setup are susceptible to producing variations of a small set of memorized jokes. On the other hand, there are examples (Chen, Shi, and Si 2023; Toplyn 2021; 2022; 2023) of humor generation using multi-step procedures inspired by humor theories. Inspired by the results and challenges highlighted by these papers, we attempted to demonstrate that modern, powerful language models can generate novel one-line jokes with a quality comparable to that of human jokes. Instead of relying on existing humor theories, we inferred humor generation policy directly from the dataset of jokes.

We hypothesize that the ability to connect multiple distant concepts is one key element in producing novel jokes. To incorporate such a skill in the humor-generation pipeline, we added steps for brainstorming and refining associations for a given topic using LLM. With the help of human annotation, we demonstrated that the final pipeline based on a humor-generation policy and a procedure to mine associations improves both the quality and novelty of generated jokes. The latter are also, on average, more funny than human jokes scraped from Reddit (Weller and Seppi 2019).

We speculate that the procedure for mining new associations between concepts, ideas, and facts is a critical component not only for humor generation, but also for strong AI systems intended to produce novel and creative results. Indeed, as noted by Szegedy (2024), scientific progress generally relies on finding more and more obscure connections between areas that are less and less obviously connected. Therefore, truly creative AI systems will need to find a way to address this issue in a principled way.

**Subjectivity of humor.**

We stress that humor is a highly subjective and complicated phenomenon. Ironically, the authors of this paper did themselves the first pilot labeling of generated jokes and showed highly contradictory results. This potentially occurred due to poor knowledge of special jargon knowledge. Besides knowledge of jargon, comprehension of humor depends on many other ingredients. For instance, comprehension of the joke “*Why would Trump change a light bulb? He was told Obama installed it*” requires knowledge of US politics and also depends on the political views of the person (Loakman, Maladry, and Lin 2023). Particular political jokes are also popular in certain countries since they are often used as a form of social protest for mocking and criticizing leaders. Outside of the specific community, many such jokes would look esoteric (in experiments done by authors, GPT-4 could not explain many such jokes).

Subjectivity of humor also directly affects assumptions of the present paper. Specifically, the assumption that we can distill human preferences into a universal prompt that contains the mechanics of humor generally proves to be incorrect. At the same time, we believe that a purely data-driven approach, as utilized in this paper, opens up an opportunity to take into account diverse cultural preferences. Moreover, a prompt $P_{humor-policy}$ that incorporates the mechanics of humor can be a central entity offering the possibility to “*re-program*” LLMs to preferences of the individual.

In spirit with Cozman and Munhoz (2020), we also hypothesize that the subjectivity of humor can be utilized to construct challenging but solvable benchmarks for humor comprehension, aiming at probing both special knowledge related to, e.g., different cultures, politics, and skills required to associate and relate to them.

**Ethical concerns.**

The subjectivity of humor also raises ethical questions about humor generation algorithms. A joke that appears funny and harmless to one person may be highly offensive and completely unfunny to another. Additionally, some jokes exploit darker aspects of human nature, such as violence, humiliation, and gender or racial stereotypes. Therefore, research aimed at understanding the perception of humor and the preferences of various cultures is of great importance.
