Toplyn, J. 2022. Witscript 2: A system for generating improvised jokes without wordplay. In *Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Computational Creativity (ICCC ’22).*

Toplyn, J. 2023. Witscript 3: A hybrid ai system for improvising jokes in a conversation. https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.02695.

Veale, T. 2001. *Your Wit Is My Command: Building AIs with a Sense of Humor.* The MIT Press.

Wang, H.; Zou, J.; Mozer, M.; Goyal, A.; Lamb, A.; Zhang, L.; Su, W. J.; Deng, Z.; Xie, M. Q.; Brown, H.; and Kawaguchi, K. 2024. Can ai be as creative as humans? https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01623.

Warren, C.; Barsky, A.; and McGraw, A. P. 2021. What makes things funny? an integrative review of the antecedents of laughter and amusement. *Personality and Social Psychology Review* Vol. 25(1):41–65.

Weller, O., and Seppi, K. 2019. Humor detection: A transformer gets the last laugh. *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)* 3621–3625.

Yu, D.; Kaur, S.; Gupta, A.; Brown-Cohen, J.; Goyal, A.; and Arora, S. 2023. Skill-mix: a flexible and expandable family of evaluations for ai models. https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.17567.

## Appendix A. Inferring humor-generation policy

### Prompt to decompose a single joke into building blocks

    You are an expert in humor theory, with
    extensive knowledge in various forms of
    comedy ranging from slapstick to satire and
    dry humor.
    Your expertise includes understanding the
    structural elements of jokes, cultural
    influences on humor, and the psychology
    behind what makes things funny.
    Additionally, you are a practicing stand-up
    comedian with years of experience in writing
      and performing jokes, giving you a unique
    perspective on how humor resonates with
    different audiences.
    Your task is to analyze the provided joke,
    identifying its humorous elements, potential
    audience reception, and categorizing it
    based on humor types.
    Discuss the elements that contribute to its
    humor, such as the structure of the joke,
    the play on words, the unexpected twist, or
    cultural references.

### Prompt to combine individual jokes decompositions into humor-generation policy

    "Read several texts about different jokes
    above. Formulate a list of typical (repeated
    ) elements, used for construction of jokes.
    Avoid providing semantic doubles, provide
    only unique elements and their formal
    abstract descriptions (without details of
    any particular joke).

## Appendix B. Generating new jokes

### Prompt to get associations for topic

    Given the theme, provide a numbered list of
    20 free associations with it: different
    meanings, different contexts, stereotypes,
    puns, exaggerations, incongruity, cultural
    references, juxtaposition. Use short
    descriptions -- 1-5 words each.

### Prompt to expand associations

    Read the theme and the list of associations
    with it.
    Rewrite and expand each of the associations
    into longer and more detailed (10-15 words
    each).
    Avoid repetitions and usage the similar
    words across the sentences. Keep mentioning
    the original theme.
    Provide a numbered list as a result.

### Prompt to refine and combine associations

    Read the theme and analyze and review the
    list of items associated with it.
    Write a shorter list of items using the
    following rules:
    - Complementary items can be grouped into
    one item that combines the original
    descriptions.
    - Weak, unsuccessful, or poorly related
    items to the original topic should be
    deleted.
    - The final list should be no longer than 6
    items, different items should have different
    meanings or contexts.
    Provide a numbered list as a result.

### Prompt to generate joke based on topic and list of associations

    Read the theme and analyze and review the
    list of items associated with it.
    Based on that information, write a list of
    7-10 jokes using the following rules:
    - It should be "One-liner" -- a concise,
    self-contained joke, delivered in 1-2
    sentences with a two-part structure where
    the first part (setup) establishes a
    scenario and the second part (punchline)
    delivers an unexpected twist or conclusion
    that subverts the setup.
    - You may want to use one or several of
    following strategies:
    - Wordplay or pun: The use of words with
    multiple meanings or similar sounds to
    create humorous ambiguity or surprise.
