**Algorithm 3** Bagging of cues

**Require:**  
1: **Input:** Sentence $\mathcal{X}$, Cue Pool $C$, Number of Subsets $T$, Number of Cues per Subset $q$, an LLM $\mathcal{L}_{\theta}$  
**Ensure:**  
2: **Output:** Sarcasm Label $Y$  
3: **Step 1: Cue Subsets Construction**  
4: **for** $t = 1$ **to** $T$ **do**  
5: &emsp;Randomly sample a subset $S_t = \{c_{t1}, c_{t2}, \ldots, c_{tq}\}$ from $C$  
6: **Step 2: LLM Prediction**  
7: **for** $t = 1$ **to** $T$ **do**  
8: &emsp;Generate sarcasm prediction $\hat{y}_t \sim \mathcal{L}_{\theta}^{BoC}(\hat{y}_t|S_t, \mathcal{X})$  
9: **Step 3: Prediction Aggregation**  
10: Aggregate predictions using majority voting:  
11: $Y \sim Vote(\{\hat{y}_1, \hat{y}_2, \ldots, \hat{y}_T\})$  
12: **return** $Y$

---

**Algorithm 4** Tensor of cues

**Require:**  
1: **Input:** Sentence $\mathcal{X}$, an LLM $\mathcal{L}_{\theta}$  
**Ensure:**  
2: **Output:** Sarcasm Label $\mathcal{Y}$  
3: **Step 1: Extract Cues**  
4: Obtain linguistic cue embeddings $\overrightarrow{Lin} = (e_1^l, e_2^l, \ldots, e_m^l)^T$, contextual cue embeddings $\overrightarrow{Con} = (e_1^c, e_2^c, \ldots, e_p^c)^T$, emotional cue embeddings $\overrightarrow{Emo} = (e_1^e, e_2^e, \ldots, e_s^e)^T$  
5: **Step 2: Construct Tensor Representation**  
6: Compute tensor product to combine cues: $\mathcal{Z} = \begin{bmatrix} \overrightarrow{Lin} \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} \otimes \begin{bmatrix} \overrightarrow{Con} \\ 1 \end{bmatrix} \otimes \begin{bmatrix} \overrightarrow{Emo} \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$  
7: **Step 3: Sarcasm Detection**  
8: Take tensor $\mathcal{Z}$ as input to a LLM for sarcasm detection:  
9: $\mathcal{Y} \sim \mathcal{L}_{\theta}^{ToC}(\mathcal{Y}|\mathcal{Z}, \mathcal{X})$  
10: **return** $\mathcal{Y}$

---

discussions. It encompasses a balanced mixture of sarcastic and non-sarcastic comments.

**SemEval 2018 Task 3** is collected using irony-related hashtags (i.e. #irony, #sarcasm, #not) and are subsequently manually annotated to minimise the amount of noise in the corpuses. It emphasize the challenges inherent in identifying sarcasm within the constraints of Twitter’s concise format, and highlight the importance of context and linguistic subtleties in recognizing sarcasm.

**MUStARD** is compiled from popular TV shows including Friends, The Golden Girls, The Big Bang Theory, etc. It consists of 690 samples total of 3,000 utterances. Each sample is a conversation consisting of several utterances. In this work, we only use the textual information.

The statistics for each dataset are shown in Table 5.

**C C. Implementation Details**

We have implemented the prompting methods for **GPT-4o, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, LLaMA3-8B-Instruct** and **Qwen 2-7B**. The GPT-4o and Claude 3.5 Sonnet methods are implemented with the respective official Python API library: openAI[^6] and anthropic[^7], while the LLaMA and Qwen methods are implemented based on the Hugging Face Transformers library[^8]. All prompting strategies are implemented for **GPT-4o** and **Claude 3.5 Sonnet** except for ToC, which can solely be deployed on open-sourced LLMs. Following previous works in this field, LangChain[^9] is employed for the implementation of ToT and GoC. For the

[^6]: https://github.com/openai/openai-python  
[^7]: https://github.com/anthropics/anthropic-sdk-python  
[^8]: https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers  
[^9]: https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain
