> Consider the information provided in the current cue above. Classify whether the input text is sarcastic or not. If you think the Input text is sarcastic, answer: yes. If you think the Input text is not sarcastic, answer: no.

The embedded prompt above is **prepended** with the aggregated cue sequence $\mathcal{Z}$ before fed to the LLM. As it is expected to output a single token of “yes” or “no” by design, we take the logit of the first generated token and decode the label accordingly as the output of ToC.

ToC facilitates deep interactions among these cues (see Algorithm 4 in App. A). Notably, as ToC manipulates cues on the vector level via neural structures, it requires access to the LLM structure and calls for supervised training on a collection of labeled samples. During training, the weights of the LLM are frozen, and the linear weights in $f_{lin}, f_{con}, f_{emo}$ are updated as an adaptation of LLM to the task context.

## 4 Experiments

### 4.1 Experiment Setups

**Datasets.** Four benchmarking datasets are selected as the experimental beds, *viz*. IAC-V1 (Lukin and Walker, 2013), IAC-V2 (Oraby et al., 2016), SemEval 2018 Task 3 (Van Hee et al., 2018) and MUStARD (Castro et al., 2019). The details and statistics for each dataset are shown in Table 1 in App. B.

**Baselines.** A wide range of SOTA baselines are included for comparison. They are:

- **Prompt tuning.** (1) IO, (2) CoT (Wei et al., 2022) and (3) ToT (Yao et al., 2024) are three SOTA prompting approaches by leveraging advanced prompt approaches to enhance LLM’s performance.
- **LLMs.** We involve four general LLMs in the experiment, including (4) GPT-4o, (5) Claude 3.5 Sonnet, (6) Llama 3-8B and (7) Qwen 2-7B (Bai et al., 2023). The first two are non-open-source LLMs while the last two are open-source LLMs. All four LLMs are representative of the strongest capabilities of their kinds.

**Implementation.** We have implemented the prompting methods for GPT-4o, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, Llama 3-8B and Qwen2-7B. The GPT-4o and Claude 3.5 Sonnet methods are implemented with the respective official Python API library: openAI[^3] and anthropic[^4], while the LLaMA and Qwen methods are implemented based on the Hugging Face Transformers library[^5]. Further details are presented in App. C.

### 4.2 Main Results

We report both **Accuracy** and **Macro-F1** scores for **SarcasmCue** and baselines in Table 2.

**(1) SarcasmCue consistently outperforms SoTA prompting baselines.** The proposed prompting strategies in the **SarcasmCue** framework achieve an overall superior performance compared to the baselines and consistently push the SoTA by 4.2%, 2.0%, 29.7% and 58.2% on F1 scores across four datasets. In particular, by explicitly designing the reasoning steps for sarcasm detection, CoC beats CoT by a tremendous margin on **GPT-4o** and **Claude 3.5 Sonnet**, whilst performing in par with CoT on **Llama 3-8B** and **Qwen 2-7B**. By predefining the set of cues in three main categories, GoC and BoC effectively guide LLMs to reason along correct paths, leading to more accurate judgments of sarcasm compared to the freestyle thinking in ToT. For example, the best proposed method, CoC (74.74), brings a 2.0% improvement over the best baseline method, IO (73.26). ToC achieves an effective tensor fusion of multi-aspect cues for sarcasm detection, significantly outperforming other baselines. For instance, it exhibits a 29.7% improvement over the best baseline method, ToT (50.31).

**(2) Sarcasm detection does not necessarily follow a step-by-step reasoning process.** The comparison between sequential (CoT, CoC, GoC, ToT) and non-sequential (BoC, ToC) prompting strategies fails to provide clear empirical evidences on whether sarcasm detection follows a step-by-step reasoning process. Nevertheless, the results on **Llama 3-8B** are more indicative to **GPT-4o** and **Claude 3.5 Sonnet**, since the latter models have strong capabilities on their own (IO) and do not significantly benefit from any prompting strategies. For **Llama 3-8B** and **Qwen 2-7B**, non-sequential methods, particularly ToC, show superior performance. In **Llama 3-8B**, ToC achieves an average F1 score of 65.24%, which is 8.9% higher than the best sequential method (GoC at 54.54%). The difference is even more pronounced on **Qwen 2-7B**. This seems to support our hypothesize that sarcasm

[^3]: https://github.com/openai/openai-python

[^4]: https://github.com/anthropics/anthropic-sdk-python

[^5]: https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers
