> Given an input text $\mathcal{X}$, the target is to accurately detect sarcasm. Now, we have collected the keyword information as the first step: $\{keywords\}$, judge if this provides over 95% confidence for accurate detection. If so, output the result. Otherwise, from the remaining cues $\{rhetorical\ devices, punctuation, ...\}$, vote the most valuable one to improve accuracy and confidence for the next step.

This step can be formulated as $\mathcal{E}(\mathcal{L}_{\theta}^{GoC}, c_{j+1}) \sim Vote\{\mathcal{L}_{\theta}^{GoC}(c_{j+1}|\mathcal{X}, c_{1,2,...,j})\}_{c_{j+1}\in\{c_{j+1},...,c_k\}}$. Until the final judgment is reached, the most valuable cue are always selected in a greedy fashion. Although GoC enables the exploration of many possible paths across the cue graph, its nature remains grounded in a step-by-step reasoning paradigm (see Algorithm 2 in App. A).

### 3.4 Bagging of Cues

We relax the assumption that the cues are interrelated in detecting sarcasm. We introduce *bagging of cues*, an ensemble learning based paradigm that allows LLMs to independently consider varied combinations of cues without assuming a fixed order or dependency among them (Fig. 2 (c)).

BoC constructs a pool of the pre-defined 10 cues $\mathcal{C}$. From this pool, $\mathcal{T}$ subsets are obtained through $\mathcal{T}$ random samplings, where each subset $S_t$ consists of $q$ (*i.e*., $1 \le q \le 10$) cues. BoC thus leverages LLMs to generate $T$ independent sarcasm predictions $\hat{y}_t$ based on the cues of each subset. Finally, such predictions are aggregated using a majority voting mechanism to produce the final result. This approach embraces randomness in cue selection, enhancing the LLM’s ability to explore numerous potential paths. BoC consists of three key steps:

**Step 1.** Cue subsets construction. A total of $\mathcal{T}$ cue subsets $S_{t\in\{1,2,...,\mathcal{T}\}}=\{c_{t1}, c_{t2}, ..., c_{tq}\}$ are created by randomly sampling without replacement from the complete pool of cues $\mathcal{C}$. Each sampling is independent.

**Step 2.** LLM prediction. For each subset $S_t$, a LLM $\mathcal{L}_{\theta}^{BoC}$ is used to independently make sarcasm prediction through the comprehensive analysis of the cues in the subset and the input text. This can be conceptually encapsulated as $\hat{y}_t \sim \mathcal{L}_{\theta}^{BoC}(\hat{y}_t|S_t, \mathcal{X})$.

**Step 3.** Prediction aggregation. Such predictions $\{\hat{y}_1,\hat{y}_2,...,\hat{y}_T\}$ are then combined using majority voting to yield the final prediction: $Y$.

BoC does not follow the step-by-step reasoning paradigm for sarcasm detection (see Algorithm 3 in App. A.)

### 3.5 Tensor of Cues

CoC and GoC methods mainly handle low-order interactions between cues, while BoC assumes cues are independent. To capture high-order interactions among cues, we introduce *tensor of cues*, a stereo paradigm that allows LLMs to amalgamate three types of cues (*viz*. linguistic, contextual and emotional cues) into a high-dimensional representation. (Fig. 2 (d)).

ToC treats each type of cues as an independent, orthogonal view for sarcasm understanding, and constructs a multi-view representation through the tensor product of such three types of cues. We first ask the LLM to extract linguistic, contextual, and emotional cues respectively via a simple prompt. For example:

> Extract the linguistic cues from the input sentence for sarcasm detection, such as keywords, rhetorical devices, punctuation and language style.

We take the outputs of the LLM’s final hidden layer as the embeddings of the linguistic, contextual and emotional cues, and apply a tensor fusion mechanism to fuse the cues as additional inputs to the sarcasm detection prompt. Inspired by the success of tensor fusion network (TFN) for multi-modal sentiment analysis (Zadeh et al., 2017), we apply token-wise tensor fusion to aggregate the cues. In particular, the embeddings are projected on a low-dimensional space via the fully-connected layers, i.e., $\overrightarrow{Lin}=(e_1^l,e_2^l,...,e_L^l)^T$, $\overrightarrow{Con}=(e_1^c,e_2^c,...,e_L^c)^T$, $\overrightarrow{Emo}=(e_1^e,e_2^e,...,e_L^e)^T$. Then, a tensor product is computed to combine the cues into a high-dimensional representation $\overrightarrow{Z}=(e_1,e_2,...,e_L)^T$, where

$$
e_i =
\begin{bmatrix}
e_i^l \\
1
\end{bmatrix}
\otimes
\begin{bmatrix}
e_i^c \\
1
\end{bmatrix}
\otimes
\begin{bmatrix}
e_i^e \\
1
\end{bmatrix}
,\forall i \in [1,2,...,L].
\tag{1}
$$

The additional value of 1 facilitates an explicit rendering of single-cue features and bi-cue interactions, leading to a comprehensive fusion of different cues encapsulated in each fused token $e_i \in \mathbb{R}^{(d_l+1)\times(d_c+1)\times(d_e+1)}$. The values of $d_l$, $d_c$ and $d_e$ are delicately chosen such that the dimensionality of fused token is precisely $d^2$.[^2] That enables an integration of the aggregated cues to the main prompt via:

[^2]: Otherwise the fused tokens are truncated to d-dim vectors
