nition of CoT prompting in LLMs and proved its effectiveness by presenting empirical evaluations on arithmetic reasoning benchmarks. However, its performance hinged on the quality of manually crafted prompts. To fill this gap, Auto-CoT was proposed to automatically construct demonstrations with questions and reasoning chains (Zhang et al., 2022). Furthermore, Yao et al. (2024) introduced a non-chain prompting framework, namely ToT, which made LLMs consider multiple different reasoning paths to decide the next course of action. Beyond CoT and ToT approaches, Besta et al. (2024) modeled the information generated by an LLM as an arbitrary graph (i.e., GoT), where units of information were considered as vertices and the dependencies between these vertices were edges.

However, all of them adopt the sequential decoding paradigm of “let LLMs think step by step”. Contrarily, it is argued that sarcasm judgment does not conform to step-by-step logical reasoning, and there is an urgent need to develop non-sequential prompting approaches.

## 2.2 Sarcasm Detection

Sarcasm detection has evolved from early statistical learning based approaches to traditional neural methods, and further advanced to modern neural methods epitomized by Transformer models. In early stage, statistical learning based approaches mainly employ statistical learning techniques, e.g., SVM, NB, etc., to extract patterns and relationships within the data (Zhang et al., 2023). As deep learning based architectures have shown the superiority, numerous base neural networks, e.g., such as CNN (Jain et al., 2020), LSTM (Ghosh et al., 2018), GCN (Liang et al., 2022), etc., have been predominantly utilized during the middle stage of sarcasm detection research. Now, sarcasm detection research has stepped into the era of pre-trained language models (PLMs). An increasing number of researchers are designing sophisticated PLM architectures to serve as encoders for obtaining effective text representations (Liu et al., 2023).

Different from them, we propose four prompting methods to make the first attempt to explore the potential of prompting LLMs in sarcasm detection.

## 3 The Proposed Framework: SarcasmCue

The proposed SarcasmCue framework is illustrated in Fig. 2. We qualitatively compare SarcasmCue

Table 1: Comparison of prompting methods.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th rowspan="2">Scheme</th>
<th colspan="2">Seq?</th>
<th colspan="3">Non-Seq?</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Chain?</th>
<th>Tree?</th>
<th>Graph?</th>
<th>Set?</th>
<th>Tensor?</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>IO</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>CoT</td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>ToT</td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>GoT</td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✖</td>
<td>✖</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>SarcasmCue</strong></td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✔</td>
<td>✔</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

with other prompting approaches in Tab. 1. SarcasmCue is the only one to fully support chain-based, tree-based, graph-based, set-based and multidimensional array-based reasoning. It is also the only one that simultaneously supports both sequential and non-sequential prompting methods.

## 3.1 Task Definition

Given the data set $\mathcal{D} = \{(\mathcal{X}, \mathcal{Y})\}$, where $\mathcal{X} = \{x_1, x_2, ..., x_n\}$ denotes the input text sequence and $\mathcal{Y} = \{y_1, y_2, ..., y_n\}$ denotes the output label sequence. We use $\mathcal{L}_{\theta}$ to represent a large language model with parameter $\theta$. Our task is to leverage a collection of cues $C = \{c_1, c_2, ..., c_k\}$ to brige the input $\mathcal{X}$ and the output $\mathcal{Y}$, where each cue $c_i$ is a coherent language sequence that serves as an intermediate indicator toward identifying sarcasm.

## 3.2 Chain of Contradiction

We capture the inherent paradoxical nature of sarcasm, which is the incongruity between the surface sentiment and the true intention, and propose *chain of contradiction*, a CoT-style paradigm that allows LLMs to decompose the problem of sarcasm detection into intermediate steps and solve each before making decision (Fig. 2 (a)). Each cue $c_k \sim \mathcal{L}_{\theta}^{CoC}(c_k|\mathcal{X}, c_1, c_2, ..., c_{k-1})$ is sampled sequentially, then the output $\mathcal{Y} \sim \mathcal{L}_{\theta}^{CoC}(\mathcal{Y}|\mathcal{X}, c_1, ..., c_k)$. A specific instantiation of CoC involves three steps:

**Step 1.** We first ask LLM to detect the surface sentiment via the following prompt $p_1$:

Given the input sentence $[\mathcal{X}]$, what is the SURFACE sentiment, as indicated by clues such as keywords, sentimental phrases, emojis?

$c_1$ is the output sequence, which can be formulated as $c_1 \sim \mathcal{L}_{\theta}^{CoC}(c_1|\mathcal{X}, p_1)$.

**Step 2.** We thus ask LLM to carefully discover the true intention via the following prompt $p_2$:

Deduce what the sentence really means, namely the TRUE intention, by carefully checking any rhetorical devices, language style, unusual punctuations, common senses.
