*Claire; but don’t assume for a second that Alice would like Claire”;* (2) sarcasm judgment is often considered a fluid combination of various cues. Each cue holds equal importance and there is no rigid sequence of steps among them, as shown in Fig. 1. Hence, the main research question can be summarized as:

**RQ:** *Is human sarcasm detection a step-by-step reasoning process?*

To answer this question, we propose a theoretical framework, called SarcasmCue, based on the sequential and non-sequential prompting paradigm. It consists of four prompting methods, i.e., *chain of contradiction (CoC)*, *graph of cues (GoC)*, *bagging of cues (BoC)* and *tensor of cues (ToC)*. Each method has its own focus and advantages. In this work, *cue* is similar to *thought*, being a coherent language sequence related to linguistics, context, or emotion that serves as an intermediate indicator for identifying sarcasm, such as rhetorical devices or emotional words. More specifically,

- **CoC.** It harnesses the quintessential property of sarcasm (namely the contradiction between surface sentiment and true intention). It aims to: (1) identify the surface sentiment by extracting keywords, etc.; (2) deduce the true intention by scrutinizing rhetorical devices, etc.; and (3) determine the inconsistency between them. It is a typical linear structure.
- **GoC.** Generalizing over CoC, GoC frames the problem of sarcasm detection as a search over a graph and treats various cues as nodes, with the relations across cues represented as edges. Unlike CoC and ToT, it goes beyond following a fixed hierarchy or linear reasoning path. In summary, both CoC and GoC follow the step-by-step reasoning process.
- **BoC.** BoC is a bagging approach that constructs a pool of diverse cues and randomly sampling multiple cue subsets. LLMs are employed to generate multiple predictions based on these subsets, and such predictions are aggregated to produce the final result. It is a set-based structure.
- **ToC.** ToC treats each type of cues (namely linguistic, contextual, and emotional cues) as an independent, orthogonal view for sarcasm understanding and constructs a multi-view representation through the tensor product. It allows language models to leverage higher-order interactions among the cues. ToC can be visualized as a 3D volumetric structure. Hence, BoC and ToC are proposed based on the assumption that sarcasm detection is not a step-by-step reasoning process.
- **Their correlation.** These four methods represent an evolution from linear to nonlinear, and from a single perspective to multiple perspectives, together forming a comprehensive theoretical framework (SarcasmCue). Their design aims to adapt to various sarcasm detection scenarios. We present empirical evaluations of the proposed prompting approaches across four benchmarks over 4 SOTA LLMs (i.e., GPT-4o, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, Llama 3-8B, Qwen 2-7B), and compare their results against 3 SOTA prompting approaches (i.e., standard IO prompting, CoT and ToT). we highlight three key observations: (1) When the base model is more advanced (such as GPT-4 and Claude 3.5 Sonnet), CoC and GoC show superior performance against the state-of-the-art (SoTA) baseline with an improvement of 3.5% ↑. (2) ToC achieves the best performance when smaller LLMs are evaluated. For example, in Llama 3-8B, ToC’s average F1 score of 65.24 represents a 29.7% improvement over the best baseline method, ToT. In Qwen 2-7B, ToC shows a 58.2% improvement over the best baseline method, IO. (3) Our proposed framework consistently pushes SoTA by 4.2%, 2.0%, 29.7% and 58.2% in F1 scores across four datasets. This demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed framework. The main contributions are concluded as follows:

- Our work is the first to investigate the step-wise reasoning nature of sarcasm detection by using both sequential and non-sequential prompting methods.

- We propose a new prompting framework that consists of four sub-methods, *viz.* CoC, GoC, BoC and ToC.

- Comprehensive experiments over four datasets demonstrate the superiority of the proposed prompting framework.

## 2 Related Work

### 2.1 Chain-of-Thought Prompting

Inspired by the step-by-step thinking ability of humans, CoT prompting was proposed to “prompt” language models to produce intermediate reasoning steps. Wei et al. (2022) made a formal defi-
