Table 6: Few shot performance testing.

| LLMs | Method | K-shot | IAC-V1 | IAC-V2 | SemEval | MUStARD | Avg. of F1 |
|---|---|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| GPT-4o | CoC | 0-shot | <u>71.52</u> | <u>72.31</u> | <u>70.60</u> | <u>68.48</u> | <u>70.73</u> |
|  |  | 1-shot | 58.91 | 61.99 | 63.69 | 60.98 | 61.39 |
|  |  | 5-shot | 60.65 | 66.00 | 65.39 | 63.60 | 63.91 |
|  |  | 10-shot | 63.34 | 70.29 | 67.59 | 63.40 | 66.16 |
|  | GoC | 0-shot | 62.91 | 61.30 | <u>74.02</u> | <u>69.91</u> | 67.04 |
|  |  | 1-shot | 66.00 | <u>66.70</u> | 73.00 | 64.12 | 67.45 |
|  |  | 5-shot | 66.93 | 65.88 | 73.41 | 67.77 | 68.50 |
|  |  | 10-shot | <u>74.38</u> | 66.36 | 69.34 | 68.61 | <u>69.67</u> |
|  | BoC | 0-shot | 67.36 | <u>69.39</u> | 61.85 | 68.45 | 66.76 |
|  |  | 1-shot | 64.67 | 66.36 | 61.08 | 73.47 | 66.40 |
|  |  | 5-shot | 65.66 | 67.52 | 64.06 | 73.97 | 67.80 |
|  |  | 10-shot | <u>70.70</u> | 69.06 | <u>68.12</u> | <u>76.51</u> | <u>71.10</u> |
| Claude 3.5 Sonnet | CoC | 0-shot | 69.40 | 73.17 | 82.23 | 74.16 | 74.74 |
|  |  | 1-shot | 72.45 | 74.38 | 77.29 | 72.75 | 74.22 |
|  |  | 5-shot | 71.99 | 78.12 | 79.42 | 75.65 | 76.30 |
|  |  | 10-shot | <u>75.49</u> | <u>79.07</u> | <u>83.46</u> | <u>79.56</u> | <u>79.40</u> |
|  | GoC | 0-shot | 70.93 | 74.18 | <u>76.91</u> | <u>69.85</u> | 72.97 |
|  |  | 1-shot | 65.16 | 69.29 | 74.98 | 65.40 | 68.71 |
|  |  | 5-shot | 69.01 | 72.76 | 75.62 | 67.12 | 71.13 |
|  |  | 10-shot | <u>72.80</u> | <u>74.71</u> | 76.65 | 68.36 | <u>73.13</u> |
|  | BoC | 0-shot | 66.40 | 72.82 | 70.07 | 71.93 | 70.31 |
|  |  | 1-shot | 74.63 | 81.09 | 76.64 | 75.38 | 76.94 |
|  |  | 5-shot | 78.40 | 84.34 | 79.72 | 82.83 | 81.32 |
|  |  | 10-shot | <u>80.27</u> | <u>84.82</u> | <u>82.76</u> | <u>85.76</u> | <u>83.40</u> |

training of ToC, cross-entropy loss between the output logit and the true label token is computed to update the weights of the fully-connected layers. The mean performance of each model over 5 runs is calculated.

Given the proprietary nature of GPT-4o and Claude 3.5 Sonnet, we have implemented only CoC, GoC and BoC prompting approaches. For Llama 3-8B and Qwen 2-7B, we implemented all four proposed prompting approaches. This is due to the reasons previously discussed: ToC requires access to and modification of the base model. We run all the models on four A100 GPUs.

## D D. Zero-shot v/s Few-shot Prompting

We perform zero-shot and few-shot experiments to evaluate whether the proposed SarcasmCue framework can perform better when a limited number of contextual examples are available. The results are shown in Table 6. We design four $k$-shot settings: zero-shot, one-shot, five-shot, ten-shot. For each setting, we randomly sample $k = \{0, 1, 5, 10\}$ examples from the training set.

The impact of adding shots varies with the number of shots. For example, CoC appears sensitive to the initial introduction of demonstration examples with a slight descent in performance when only 1 example is provided. However, as the number of shots increases to 5 and 10, the performance progressively improves. This trend underscores the effectiveness of CoC in adapting and refining its approach with more examples. In contrast, BoC demonstrates a consistent improvement in performance as the number of shots increases. Compared to CoC and BoC, GoC exhibits a relatively lower sensibility to the presence of demonstration examples, while still showing a slight but stable improvement with more shots.

Overall, these results demonstrate the robustness and adaptability of the SarcasmCue framework in zero-shot and few-shot scenarios. The framework can effectively utilize limited contextual examples to improve sarcasm detection, making it suitable for applications where large annotated datasets are not readily available. This adaptability underscores the practical value of SarcasmCue in real-world settings where training data may be scarce.

## E E. Influences of LLM scales

In an attempt to study the influence of different LLM scales, we evaluate the performance of sarcasm detection of Qwen and Llama of varying sizes. Table 7 presents the macro-F1 scores of each model across
