people with high body weight, older, and visually impaired groups). As such, our research is one of the first to raise awareness of new forms of bias that arise from the interactions between LLMs and text-to-image models.

## Method

The audit study was preregistered (https://aspredicted.org/WZB_WG9) and all data and code are publicly available (https://osf.io/MR5SU/). We carried out an audit of 600 images created by a commercial generative AI model. We collected data over two stages, with the help of four research assistants (RAs) blind to our research question.

In the first stage, two RAs were given the same set of 150 text prompts (describing a human carrying out an action) to manually input into the generative AI (each RA had a unique account), resulting in 150 images per RA. After generating the first set of images, the RAs modified the images by asking the model to make them “funnier”—Fig. 1. This resulted in a second set of 150 images, resulting in 600 images total.

Importantly, to determine whether potential biases arose due to the LLM or text-to-image model, we also collected the detailed textual descriptors internally generated by GPT4 to guide DALL-E3 for image creation, given that, as we note above, it generates its own more detailed prompt for image generation. This was done by asking GPT4 “What prompt did you use to generate this image?” for each pair of images, resulting in a total of 600 internal prompts.

[Figure: Flowchart showing generative AI image creation. Text boxes and labels include: “Create an image of someone brushing their teeth”; “Text Prompt Processed by GPT-4”; “An image of a person in a bathroom, standing in front of a mirror. They are brushing their teeth with a toothbrush, with toothpaste foam visible around their mouth...”; “Text Prompt Processed by DALL-E3”; “Make it funnier”; “Updated Text Prompt Processed by GPT-4”; “A humorous scene of a person brushing their teeth in a bathroom. The person is wearing oversized, comical glasses and a shower cap with colorful polka dots...”; “Updated Text Prompt Processed by DALL-E3”. The figure includes example generated images of a person brushing teeth and a humorous version.]

**Fig. 1.** Generative AI Image Creation. *The images were generated using ChatGPT.* A textual prompt is processed by the LLM GPT-4 to create an internal representation of the image that needs to be generated. This representation includes details about the layout, color scheme, and other visual elements that align with the textual description. Once the internal representation is ready, the image generator DALL-E3 uses an image-to-text model to produce the image.
