scientific reports

OPEN

# Humor as a window into generative AI bias

Roger Saumure<sup>1✉</sup>, Julian De Freitas<sup>2</sup> & Stefano Puntoni<sup>1</sup>

**A preregistered audit of 600 images by generative AI across 150 different prompts explores the link between humor and discrimination in consumer-facing AI solutions. When ChatGPT updates images to make them “funnier”, the prevalence of stereotyped groups changes. While stereotyped groups for politically sensitive traits (i.e., race and gender) are less likely to be represented after making an image funnier, stereotyped groups for less politically sensitive traits (i.e., older, visually impaired, and people with high body weight groups) are more likely to be represented.**

Recent years have witnessed two major trends. The first is the increasing use and availability of generative artificial intelligence (AI) commercial systems (e.g., ChatGPT, Gemini). By early 2023, for example, it was estimated that OpenAI’s ChatGPT had accumulated over 100 million monthly users<sup>1</sup>. The second trend is the enhanced interoperability between generative AI models, whereby large language models (LLMs) and image generators can readily communicate to generate or modify images. For example, a user might type a prompt into ChatGPT like: “Create an image of someone reading a book.” The LLM GPT4 processes this prompt and expands it into a much more detailed prompt: “An image of a person sitting in a cozy, well-lit room, deeply engrossed in reading a book. They are comfortably seated in an armchair with a warm blanket draped over their legs. The room is filled with soft, ambient lighting, creating a serene atmosphere...” that is used to guide the text-to-image model DALL-E3 to generate an image.

How do AI models communicate and what are the potential consequences of these interactions? In this research, we explore these questions by examining how text-to-image generators and LLMs interact to create images. Specifically, through a preregistered audit of 600 images created by a commercial generative AI, we find that using ChatGPT to update images by making them “funnier” increases the prevalence of some stereotyped groups: people with high body weight<sup>2</sup>, older, and visually impaired. Our results suggest that these observed biases are primarily attributable to the text-to-image model rather than the language model.

We study the intersections between AI image generation, bias, and humor for both theoretical and substantive reasons. First, to our knowledge, no research has examined humor and bias in the context of AI-generated images. Research on the relationship between humor and prejudice is a large area of study in psychology, sociology, and communication<sup>3–5</sup>. A common finding of this literature is that humor can reinforce prejudice and stereotypes. Indeed, prior work has shown that humor can perpetuate prejudiced attitudes by normalizing derogatory stereotypes and facilitating their expression in socially acceptable ways<sup>6–9</sup>. For instance, Bill and Naus found that humorously framing sexist incidents increased the acceptability of sexism<sup>10</sup>. Similarly, Katz and Wing-Paul found that humorously insulting people with intellectual disabilities increased the acceptability of ableism and decreased participants’ likelihood of confronting the insulter<sup>11</sup>. As such, humor could act as a window into whether generative AI can exacerbate prejudice and stereotypes, carrying both theoretical and practical implications.

While it is true that some types of humor, like satirical humor, can also undermine stereotypes by exposing the absurdity of prejudiced beliefs and encouraging audiences to question and reject harmful stereotypes<sup>12–14</sup>, here we explore a form of humor that is more likely to exacerbate prejudices. Specifically, we ask whether asking generative AI to “make images funnier” is more likely to give rise to groups that are typically the target of prejudice, e.g., the initial image is a man with average weight, whereas the “funnier” image is a man with high body weight. Because the target of the humor is the traditionally prejudiced group, this instance of humor can reinforce harmful stereotypes about, say, high body weight individuals. This, in turn, can perpetuate prejudice against such people, such as fatphobia, contributing toward real-world discrimination and social exclusion. In short, the humor is most likely to be interpreted as “punching down”, making fun of a group that already faces prejudice, rather than “punching up,” targeting systems of power or shared human experiences that marginalize these groups<sup>15,16</sup>.

Second, whereas considerable efforts have been made to mitigate bias from algorithms in two dimensions (race and gender)<sup>17–21</sup>, we find evidence of bias in other dimensions that might have been overlooked (i.e.,

<sup>1</sup>Department of Marketing, The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. <sup>2</sup>Department of Marketing, Harvard Business School, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA. ✉email: saumure@wharton.upenn.edu
