Per our preregistration, we excluded images that met our exclusion criteria to ensure the reliability of our coding. We excluded images that featured non-human entities (e.g., animals) or more than one human. If a trait(s) was not discernible from an image, we excluded the image only for the measure of bias that could not be determined from the image. For example, if an image depicted a female but their race could not be determined, we excluded the image for the race measure but retained it for the gender measure.

In the second stage, two separate, hypothesis-blind research assistants participated in a qualitative coding task. They dummy coded (1, 0) the set of images across five dimensions: race (White, Black, Asian, Hispanic), gender (male or female), eyesight (no glasses or glasses), bodyweight (low body weight or high body weight), and age (young/middle- or old-aged). After completing the qualitative coding task, RAs met to resolve any disagreements.

## Results

We analyzed the data using three analyses: (1) an equal-weighted omnibus bias analysis, (2) a severity-weighted omnibus bias analysis, and (3) trait-specific bias analyses. The omnibus and severity-weighted analyses allowed us to capture the overall presence and magnitude of bias across all dimensions in generative AI output, whereas the trait-specific bias analyses allowed us to capture the presence and magnitude of bias in specific dimensions (e.g., race, gender, bodyweight).

The equal-weighted omnibus bias estimate was computed using a pre-established coding scheme. For each dimension, we determined if there was bias toward stereotyping across the two images (coded as 1, e.g., White → minority), away from it (coded as -1, e.g., minority → White), or no bias (coded as 0, e.g., White → White, or minority → minority). Results of the equal-weighted omnibus bias analysis revealed a mean bias toward stereotyping in the AI-generated images ($M = 0.39$, $\text{SE} = 0.05$, $t(264) = 7.25$, 95% CI [0.286, 0.499], $p < 0.001$, $d = 0.45$).

The severity-weighted omnibus bias estimate was similar but computed based on a pretest ($N = 300$, recruited from Prolific; $M_{\text{age}} = 39$; 50% female; 67% White). The pretest asked participants how much they thought policy makers should be concerned about bias toward the groups we were examining: “In your opinion, how much should policy makers be concerned about discrimination towards [group]” (0 = “not at all”, and 100 = “a great deal”). We created this estimate because recent polls have shown that Americans weigh certain biases (e.g., racial bias towards Black vs. Asian people) differently<sup>22</sup>. These weights were used to compute a weighted bias measure across the five dimensions. For instance, if participants rated concern about discrimination towards women an 80 out of 100 and towards men a 20 out of 100, then the weights would be 0.8 and 0.2, respectively. The bias towards gender stereotyping (female → male) would then be coded as 0.6 (0.8–0.2). We acknowledge that alternative methods (e.g., prior research, expert opinion) could be used to capture the severity of different biases; we chose the current approach to gain a sense of the general public’s concern, since members of the public are users of the technology and a key stakeholder for both generative AI companies and policy makers. Importantly, our main findings remain consistent even when not applying these weights. Indeed, just like the equal-weighted analysis, we found a mean bias toward stereotyping in AI-generated images in the severity-weighted omnibus bias analysis ($M = 0.09$, $\text{SE} = 0.01$, $t(264) = 8.65$, 95% CI [0.0729, 0.116], $p < 0.001$, $d = 0.531$).

To identify the presence of bias across specific dimensions, we estimated four preregistered multilevel logistic regression models. Specifically, we regressed the presence of each trait (coded as a binary variable) on the image version (original vs. funnier), including prompt as a random intercept (Table 1). Due to complete separation in the multilevel logistic regression for the bodyweight dimension, we used an OLS regression with robust standard errors clustered by prompt. We found significant differences between the two sets of images (first and funnier version) for all dimensions. The bias was strong and in the predicted direction for the dimensions of age ($\beta = 2.93$, $\text{SE} = 0.62$, $z = 4.74$, 95% CI [1.72, 4.14], $p < 0.001$), bodyweight ($\beta = 0.095$, $\text{SE} = 0.018$, $t(523) = 5.19$, 95% CI [0.059, 0.13], $p < 0.001$), and eyesight ($\beta = 2.83$, $\text{SE} = 0.42$, $z = 6.69$, 95% CI [2.00, 3.65], $p < 0.001$) dimensions. However, we found the opposite effect for the race ($\beta = -1.32$, $\text{SE} = 0.52$, $z = -2.53$, 95% CI [-2.34, -0.30], $p = 0.011$) and gender ($\beta = -0.88$, $\text{SE} = 0.38$, $z = -2.28$, 95% CI [-1.63, -0.12], $p = 0.022$) dimensions—Fig. 2a. So, prompting the model to make the image funnier led to older, heavier, and more visually impaired subjects, but fewer minority race and female subjects.

We speculate that this surprising trend might be related to relative differences in the political sensitivity of biases across different dimensions. To provide initial evidence for this argument, we created a “political sensitivity” dummy variable based on a separate group of participants’ responses in a preregistered study ($N = 100$, recruited from Prolific; $M_{\text{age}} = 40$; 55% female; 67% White; https://aspredicted.org/WR4_X6H). Specifically, we asked participants to indicate how concerned they believed businesses would be if they were accused of bias

|  | Race | Gender | Bodyweight | Eyesight | Age |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Funnier | − 1.32* | − 0.88* | 0.095*** | 2.83*** | 2.93*** |
|  | (0.52) | (0.38) | (0.018) | (0.42) | (0.62) |
| Intercept | − 2.61*** | − 2.91*** | 0.00 | − 3.63*** | − 4.77*** |
|  | (0.26) | (0.44) | (0.00) | (0.45) | (0.69) |
| Observations | 491 | 515 | 525 | 462 | 509 |

**Table 1.** Regression results examining the effect of making an image funnier on the presence of several traits (race, gender, eyesight, bodyweight, age). Standard errors in parentheses. Significance levels: *** $p < 0.001$, ** $p < 0.01$, * $p < 0.05$.
