$p < 0.001$), non-politically sensitive groups were more likely to be represented after making an image funnier (β = 2.67, SE = 0.29, z = 9.07, 95% CI [2.09, 3.24], $p < 0.001$)—Fig. 2b.

Finally, to determine whether the bias originated from the language model or text-to-image model, we carried out an additional analysis that examined the presence of textual descriptors along the five bias dimensions in the textual prompts that GPT4 sent to DALL-E3 (obtained by asking GPT4, “What prompt did you use to generate this image?”). We did not find evidence of bias in the language model in this additional analysis except for in the eyesight dimension ($\chi^2(1) = 34.04$, $p < 0.001$), whereby the proportion of the word “glasses” was higher in the updated textual descriptors (17.74% vs. 2.26%). By a process of elimination, this suggests that most of the bias in the images originates from the image model, not the language model. This pattern is consistent with researchers’ and commentators’ remarks about the greater difficulty of assessing bias in image as opposed to language models<sup>27,28</sup>.

## Discussion

Taken together, our research shows that using ChatGPT to update images by making them “funnier” increases the prevalence of certain stereotyped groups, while decreasing the prevalence of others. Specifically, we find evidence of bias against minorities for less politically sensitive dimensions (age, bodyweight, and eyesight) and evidence against majorities for more politically sensitive dimensions (race and gender). The presence of bias against older, heavier and visually impaired people is concerning since past work in psychology and sociology has shown that such forms of ‘punching down’ humor can exacerbate stereotypes<sup>5,29</sup> and the downstream prejudices of fat shaming, ageism, and ableism. Whereas practitioners have made considerable efforts to mitigate algorithmic biases related to race and gender, biases across other dimensions—such as age, body weight, and disability—have received less attention. With that said, a growing body of research has begun exploring these areas<sup>30–33</sup>. For instance, Herold et al. assessed disability bias in pre-trained natural language processing (NLP) models underlying AI-based assistive technologies, finding significant associations of disability with lower warmth and competence<sup>32</sup>. Similarly, Arseniev-Koehler and Foster investigated how machine learning models internalize societal schemas related to body weight, revealing biases against individuals with high body weight<sup>30</sup>. Our work contributes to this emerging literature by identifying similar patterns of biases in AI-generated images arising from interactions between LLMs and text-to-image models.

It is challenging to determine the cause of these findings. Since humans are known to exhibit bias on all dimensions, one possibility is that app makers, through their efforts (e.g., dataset curation, fine-tuning, and filtering), have selectively corrected for racial and gender bias. These particular minority groups might garner more attention and advocacy because they are more salient in Western society, for historical, cultural, and political reasons<sup>34</sup>. If this interpretation is correct, then LLMs trained on corpora in other languages may exhibit different patterns of bias. For example, we should expect LLMs that generate images based on prompts in Hindi to be more corrected against biases against Muslims (the largest religious minority in India), given the more salient tension between Hindus and Muslims in India.

Although we document a new pattern of bias in generative AI, our results raise several implications and directions for future research. Notably, we observed significant underrepresentation of discriminated groups in the original images before any modifications were made. For example, the baseline proportions of high body weight and female individuals featured in the original images were 0% and 9.80%, respectively—a severe underestimation of the national averages of 73.60%<sup>35</sup> and 50.50%<sup>36</sup>. Such underrepresentation is itself a bias in AI-generated images that could be just as problematic as the biases introduced when making the images “funnier”. This lack of representation may perpetuate stereotypes by reinforcing default assumptions about what is normal or representative of society (e.g., white men of low body weight), making other traits seem less normal and representative<sup>37</sup>. Thus, we encourage future research to investigate whether such underrepresentation is observed across different AI models and to address whether the absence of certain groups leads to increased stereotyping or perpetuation of default assumptions.

We also encourage future research to directly examine whether specific image features (e.g., complexity, spatial composition, lighting) systematically change after modifying the images. For instance, the modified image in Fig. 1 is more colorful, cartoon-like, and complex than the original. Are such image transformations systematic and, if so, do they further perpetuate stereotypes—say, by enhancing the negative impact of the humorized depiction of a stereotyped group? Are attitudes toward certain groups more affected by such image transformations than others? While these questions are not the primary focus of the current research, we believe that they merit a formal investigation.

Finally, our findings open avenues for future research to explore the downstream consequences of our findings. As we noted, while prior studies suggest that humor can exacerbate stereotypes and prejudices<sup>7–9</sup>, other work indicates the opposite—that humor can challenge and even undermine stereotypes<sup>12–14</sup>. For instance, Zimbardo posits that humor can challenge stereotypes toward Muslim communities by highlighting the absurdity of these stereotypes<sup>14</sup>. Similarly, Borgella et al. find that humor can mitigate prejudice by reducing anxiety in interracial interactions and fostering dialogue between different racial groups<sup>12</sup>. We have pointed out why in this case the absurd, cartoon-like images produced when making an image “funnier” are more likely to reinforce than undermine stereotypes, although this remains an empirical question.

Ultimately, since these generative models are widely utilized for many purposes, and because their potential to perpetuate prejudice is extended through increasing interoperability, we believe all dimensions of prejudice deserve attention and advocacy from the public, policymakers and corporations. Stakeholders can strive for balance in all dimensions, rather than bias in any direction.
