## Data availability

All data and code are publicly available (https://osf.io/MR5SU/).

Received: 9 August 2024; Accepted: 13 December 2024  
Published online: 08 January 2025

## References

1. Porter, J. ChatGPT continues to be one of the fastest-growing services ever. *The Verge* https://www.theverge.com/2023/11/6/23948386/chatgpt-active-user-count-openai-developer-conference (2023).
2. Puhl, R. M. Weight stigma, policy initiatives, and harnessing social media to elevate activism. *Body Image* **40**, 131–137 (2022).
3. Keith-Spiegel, P. Early conceptions of humor: Varieties and issues. In *The Psychology of Humor* (eds Goldstein, J. H. & McGhee, P. E.) 3–39 (Academic Press, 1972).
4. Mickes, L., Walker, D. E., Parris, J. L., Mankoff, R. & Christenfeld, N. J. S. Who’s funny: Gender stereotypes, humor production, and memory bias. *Psychonomic Bull. Rev.* **19**, 108–112 (2011).
5. Zillmann, D. Disparagement humor. In *Handbook of Humor Research* (eds McGhee, P. E. & Goldstein, J. H.) 85–107 (Springer, 1983).
6. Argüello Gutiérrez, C., Carretero-Dios, H., Willis, G. B. & Moya, M. Joking about ourselves: Effects of disparaging humor on ingroup stereotyping. *Group Process. Intergroup Relat.* **21**, 568–583 (2018).
7. Ferguson, M. A. & Ford, T. E. Disparagement humor: A theoretical and empirical review of psychoanalytic, superiority, and social identity theories. *HUMOR* **21**, 283–312 (2008).
8. Ford, T. E. & Ferguson, M. A. Social consequences of disparagement humor: A prejudiced norm theory. *Pers. Soc. Psychol. Rev.* **8**, 79–94 (2004).
9. Kirk, M. R. The role of humor in the social construction of gendered and ethnic stereotypes. *Race Gender Class* **9**, 76–95 (2002).
10. Bill, B. & Naus, P. The role of humor in the interpretation of sexist incidents. *Sex Roles* **27**, 645–664 (1992).
11. Katz, J. & Wing-Paul, D. Taking a joke seriously: When does humor affect responses to the slurring of people with intellectual disabilities. *HUMOR* **33**, 563–579 (2020).
12. Borgella, A. M., Howard, S. & Maddox, K. B. Cracking wise to break the ice: The potential for racial humor to ease interracial anxiety. *HUMOR* **33**, 105–135 (2020).
13. Strain, M. L., Martens, A. L. & Saucier, D. A. Rape is the new black: Humor’s potential for reinforcing and subverting rape culture. *Transl. Issues Psychol. Sci.* **2**, 86–95 (2016).
14. Zimbardo, Z. Cultural politics of humor in (de)normalizing Islamophobic stereotypes. *Islamophobia Stud. J.* **2**, 59–81 (2014).
15. Ford, T. E., Richardson, K. & Petit, W. E. Disparagement humor and prejudice: Contemporary theory and research. *HUMOR* **28**, 171–186 (2015).
16. Hodson, G., Rush, J. & MacInnis, C. C. A joke is just a joke (except when it isn’t): Cavalier humor beliefs facilitate the expression of group dominance motives. *J. Pers. Soc. Psychol.* **99**, 660–682 (2010).
17. Ananya. AI image generators often give racist and sexist results: Can they be fixed. *Nature* **627**, 722–725 (2024).
18. Chen, Z. Ethics and discrimination in artificial intelligence-enabled recruitment practices. *Hum. Soc. Sci. Commun.* **10**, 567 (2023).
19. Gupta, M., Parra, C. M. & Dennehy, D. Questioning racial and gender bias in AI-based recommendations: Do espoused national cultural values matter?. *Inf. Syst. Front.* **24**, 1465–1481 (2022).
20. O’Connor, S. & Liu, H. Gender bias perpetuation and mitigation in AI technologies: Challenges and opportunities. *AI Soc.* **39**, 2045–2057 (2024).
21. Varsha, P. S. How can we manage biases in artificial intelligence systems–a systematic literature review. *Int. J. Inf. Manag. Data Insights* **3**, 100165 (2023).
22. Daniller A. Majorities of Americans see at least some discrimination against Black, Hispanic and Asian people in the U.S. *Pew Research Center* https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2021/03/18/majorities-of-americans-see-at-least-some-discrimination-against-black-hispanic-and-asian-people-in-the-u-s/ (2021).
23. Crandall, C. S., Eshleman, A. & O’Brien, L. Social norms and the expression and suppression of prejudice: The struggle for internalization. *J. Pers. Soc. Psychol.* **82**, 359–378 (2002).
24. Fiske, S. T. Stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination. In *The Handbook of Social Psychology* (eds Gilbert, D. T. et al.) 357–411 (McGraw-Hill, 1998).
25. North, M. S. & Fiske, S. T. An inconvenienced youth? Ageism and its potential intergenerational roots. *Psychol. Bull.* **138**, 982–997 (2012).
26. Puhl, R. M. & Heuer, C. A. The stigma of obesity: A review and update. *Obesity* **17**, 941–964 (2009).
27. Cevik, J. et al. Assessment of the bias of artificial intelligence generated images and large language models on their depiction of a surgeon. *ANZ J. Surg.* **94**, 287–294 (2024).
28. Wang W, Bai H, Huang J-t, Wan Y, Yuan Y, Qiu H, Peng N & Lyu MR. New job, new gender? Measuring the social bias in image generation models. *arXiv preprint* arXiv:2401.00763 (2024).
29. Zenner, W. P. Joking and ethnic stereotyping. *Anthropol. Quart.* **43**, 93–113 (1970).
30. Arseniev-Koehler, A. & Foster, J. G. Machine learning as a model for cultural learning: Teaching an algorithm what it means to be fat. *Sociol. Methods Res.* **51**, 1484–1539 (2022).
31. Charlesworth, T. E. S., Sanjeev, N., Hatzenbuehler, M. L. & Banaji, M. R. Identifying and predicting stereotype change in large language corpora: 72 groups, 115 years (1900–2015), and four text sources. *J. Pers. Soc. Psychol.* **125**, 969–990 (2023).
32. Herold, B., Waller, J. & Kushalnagar, R. S. Applying the Stereotype Content Model to assess disability bias in popular pre-trained NLP models underlying AI-based assistive technologies. in *Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Speech and Language Processing for Assistive Technologies (SLPAT 2022)* 58–65 (2022).
33. Zorrilla-Muñoz, V., Moyano, D. L., Marcos Carvajal, C. & Agulló-Tomás, M. S. Towards equitable representations of ageing: Evaluation of gender, territories, aids and artificial intelligence. *Land* **13**, 1304 (2024).
34. Kardosh, R., Sklar, A. Y., Goldstein, A., Pertzov, Y. & Hassin, R. R. Minority salience and the overestimation of individuals from minority groups in perception and memory. *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **119**, e2116884119 (2022).
35. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. FastStats - Overweight Prevalence. *Centers for Disease Control and Prevention* https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/obesity-overweight.htm (2023).
36. U.S. Census Bureau. QuickFacts: United States. *Census.gov* https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/table/US/LFE046218 (2023).
37. Cheryan, S. & Markus, H. R. Masculine defaults: Identifying and mitigating hidden cultural biases. *Psychol. Rev.* **127**, 1022–1052 (2020).

## Author contributions

R.S., J.D.F. and S.P. conceived the project and designed the research. R.S. supervised data collection, analyzed the data, wrote the original draft, and prepared Figs. 1–2 and table 1. All authors reviewed and edited the manuscript.
