## 7 Conclusion

In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey on pun generation tasks, including phonetic, graphic and visual puns. We classify and thoroughly analyse the datasets used in pun research, review previous approaches to pun generation, discuss existing methods, as well as summarize the evaluation metrics for pun generation. Furthermore, we highlight the challenges and future directions, offering insights for researchers interested in pun generation. To enhance the research, we plan to provide an updated reading list available on the GitHub repository.

## Limitations

Although we have attempted to extensively analyse the existing literature on pun generation, some works may still be missed due to variations in search keywords. Furthermore, our exploration of other categories of puns is limited, such as recursive puns and antanaclasis, as we encountered challenges while searching for them, which may be influenced by the relatively low attention they have received in the research community. Finally, due to the rapid development of the research field, this study does not cover the entire historical scope nor the latest advancements following the survey. However, our work represents the first comprehensive survey on pun generation, including datasets, methods, evaluation, challenges and potential directions, making it a valuable resource for scholars in this field.

## Acknowledgments

This research is supported by the Strong AI Lab and the Natural, Artificial, and Organisation Intelligence Institute at the University of Auckland. The first author of this research is funded by the China Scholarship Council (CSC).

## References

Anne Abeillé, Lionel Clément, and François Toussenel. 2003. Building a treebank for french. *Treebanks: Building and using parsed corpora*, pages 165–187.

Elaf Alhazmi, Quan Z. Sheng, W. Zhang, Munazza Zaib, and Ahoud Abdulrahmn F. Alhazmi. 2024. Distractor generation in multiple-choice tasks: A survey of methods, datasets, and evaluation. In *Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*.

Arwa I Alhussain and Aqil M Azmi. 2021. Automatic story generation: A survey of approaches. *ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR)*, 54(5):1–38.

Sawsan Alqahtani, Garima Lalwani, Yi Zhang, Salvatore Romeo, and Saab Mansour. 2021. Using optimal transport as alignment objective for fine-tuning multilingual contextualized embeddings. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.02887.*

Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. 2020. A survey on approaches to computational humor generation. In *Proceedings of the 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, pages 29–41.

Issa Annamoradnejad and Gohar Zoghi. 2020. Colbert: Using bert sentence embedding in parallel neural networks for computational humor. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.12765.*

Anthropic. 2024. The claude 3 model family: Opus, sonnet, haiku.

Mohammed H Al Aqad, Ahmad Arifin Bin Sapar, Mohamad Bin Hussin, Ros Aiza Mohd Mokhtar, and Abd Hakim Mohad. 2019. The english translation of arabic puns in the holy quran. *Journal of Intercultural Communication Research*, 48(3):243–256.

Giorgio Francesco Arcodia et al. 2007. Chinese: A language of compound words. *Selected proceedings of the 5th Décembrettes: Morphology in Toulouse*, pages 79–90.

DeepFloyd Lab at StabilityAI. 2023. DeepFloyd IF: a novel state-of-the-art open-source text-to-image model with a high degree of photorealism and language understanding. https://www.deepfloyd.ai/deepfloyd-if. Retrieved on 2023-11-08.

Salvatore Attardo. 2009. *Linguistic theories of humor*. Walter de Gruyter.

Zeynep Gençer Baloğlu. 2022. The category of reduplication in japanese and the classification problems. *Dil Araştırmaları*, 16(30):67–82.

Isabel Balteiro. 2006. A contribution to the study of conversion in english.

Robert Beard. 2017. Derivation. *The handbook of morphology*, pages 44–65.

Nancy D Bell, Scott Crossley, and Christian F Hempelmann. 2011. Wordplay in church marquees.

Brendan Bena and Jugal Kalita. 2020. Introducing aspects of creativity in automatic poetry generation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.02511.*

Maciej Besta, Nils Blach, Ales Kubicek, Robert Gerstenberger, Michal Podstawski, Lukas Gianinazzi, Joanna Gajda, Tomasz Lehmann, Hubert Niewiadomski, Piotr Nyczyk, et al. 2024. Graph of thoughts: Solving elaborate problems with large language models. In
