<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Method</th>
<th>Model</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Language</th>
<th>Dataset</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td colspan="5" align="center">Classic Deep Neural Networks</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Neural Pun (Yu et al., 2018)</td>
<td>LSTM</td>
<td>hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>Wikipedia &amp; (Miller et al., 2017)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Pun-GAN (Luo et al., 2019)</td>
<td>LSTM</td>
<td>hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>Wikipedia &amp; (Miller et al., 2017)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SurGen (He et al., 2019)</td>
<td>LSTM</td>
<td>hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>BookCorpus &amp; (Miller et al., 2017)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>LCR (Yu et al., 2020)</td>
<td>LSTM</td>
<td>hop</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>BookCorpus &amp; (Hu et al., 2019)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AFPun-GAN (Diao et al., 2020)</td>
<td>ON-LSTM</td>
<td>hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>Wikipedia &amp; (Miller et al., 2017)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="5" align="center">Pre-trained Language Models</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ext Ambipun(Mittal et al., 2022)</td>
<td>T5</td>
<td>hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>(Annamoradnejad and Zoghi, 2020)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sim Ambipun(Mittal et al., 2022)</td>
<td>T5</td>
<td>hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>(Annamoradnejad and Zoghi, 2020)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gen Ambipun(Mittal et al., 2022)</td>
<td>T5</td>
<td>hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>(Annamoradnejad and Zoghi, 2020)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>UnifiedPun(Tian et al., 2022)</td>
<td>GPT-2 &amp; BERT</td>
<td>hog&amp;hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>(Annamoradnejad and Zoghi, 2020)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Context-pun(Sun et al., 2022b)</td>
<td>T5</td>
<td>hog&amp;heg</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>(Sun et al., 2022b)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>PunIntended (Zeng et al., 2024)</td>
<td>BERT</td>
<td>hop&amp;hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>(Sun et al., 2022a)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>PGCL (Chen et al., 2024)</td>
<td>LLaMA2-7B</td>
<td>hop&amp;hog</td>
<td>English</td>
<td>(Miller et al., 2017)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>PGCL (Chen et al., 2024)</td>
<td>Baichuan2-7B</td>
<td>hop&amp;hog</td>
<td>Chinese</td>
<td>(Chen et al., 2024)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hinglish (Sarrof, 2025)</td>
<td>GPT-3.5</td>
<td>hop</td>
<td>Multi-language</td>
<td>C4 &amp; The Pile &amp; Dakshina</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 1: Methods of neural network models and pre-trained language models for pun generation task. Hog, hop and heg denote the types of homographic puns, homophonic puns and heterographic puns, respectively.

existing methods heavily rely on annotated data and limited types of corpora, which restricts further improvement in the quality of pun generation.

## 4.3 Pre-trained Language Models

Early PLMs, such as Word2Vec (Mikolov, 2013) and GloVe (Pennington et al., 2014), are distributed word representation methods trained on large-scale unlabeled text data, capable of capturing both the semantic and contextual information of words. These models are utilised to address various subtasks involved in pun generation, which has a bunch of semantic prior knowledge than classic DNNs. For example, Mittal et al. (2022) proposed to get the context words from Word2Vec based on pun words. Yu et al. (2020) designed a constraint selection algorithm based on lexical semantic relevance and obtained the word embeddings from Continuous Bag of Words (CBOW) (Mikolov, 2013).

Most contemporary PLMs are built upon the Transformer architecture (Vaswani, 2017), which has shown outstanding performance across various natural language processing tasks (Min et al., 2023). The main model categories are classified into: (1) auto-encoding models, such as BERT (Devlin et al., 2019), (2) auto-regressive models, such as the GPT-2 (Radford et al., 2019), and (3) encoder-decoder models, such as T5 (Raffel et al., 2020). Pun generation tasks are primarily implemented through fine-tuning and prompting strategies.

### 4.3.1 PLMs with Fine-Tuning

Fine-tuning PLMs is to further train the model on a specific dataset to make it better suited to the needs of a specific task. For auto-encoding models, since the bidirectional encoding characteristics of the model are not suitable for generation tasks, most current work on pun generation employs it as the discriminator in GANs. For example, Zeng et al. (2024) and Tian et al. (2022) both used the BERT-base model, leveraging the [CLS] token representation for classification.

In auto-regressive models, Tian et al. (2022) fine-tuned the GPT-2 model based on the combination dataset of Gutenberg BookCorpus and jokes (Annamoradnejad and Zoghi, 2020) and proposed a unified framework for generating both homophonic and homographic puns. Chen et al. (2024) fine-tuned both LLaMA2-7B (Touvron et al., 2023) and Baichuan2-7B (Yang et al., 2023) for generating English and Chinese puns respectively through the standard Direct Preference Optimization (Rafailov et al., 2024) and multistage curriculum learning framework.

For encoder-decoder models, Mittal et al. (2022) explored the generation of puns based on context words associated with pun words and finetuned a keyword-to-sentence model using the T5 model. Similarly, Sun et al. (2022b) proposed the context-situated pun generation, which involves identifying pun words for a given set of contextual keywords and then generating puns based on these keywords and the associated pun words. Zeng et al. (2024) used T5 as a generator, taking the pun semantic
