Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al. 2023. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288*.

Ashirova Madina To’rayevna. 2025. Definition and meaning of compound words. *Western European Journal of Medicine and Medical Science*, 3(03):4–7.

Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. Interleaving retrieval with chain-of-thought reasoning for knowledge-intensive multi-step questions. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.10509*.

Bradley Tyler, Katherine Wilsdon, and Paul M Bodily. 2020. Computational humor: Automated pun generation. In *ICCC*, pages 181–184.

Alessandro Valitutti, Oliviero Stock, and Carlo Strapparava. 2009. Graphlaugh: a tool for the interactive generation of humorous puns. In *2009 3rd International Conference on Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction and Workshops*, pages 1–2. IEEE.

Alessandro Valitutti, Hannu Toivonen, Antoine Doucet, and Jukka M Toivanen. 2013. “let everything turn well in your wife”: generation of adult humor using lexical constraints. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 243–248.

Margot Van Mulken, Renske Van Enschot-van Dijk, and Hans Hoeken. 2005. Puns, relevance and appreciation in advertisements. *Journal of pragmatics*, 37(5):707–721.

A Vaswani. 2017. Attention is all you need. *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*.

Christopher Venour. 2000. *The computational generation of a class of pun*. Queen’s University.

Guan Wang, Sijie Cheng, Xianyuan Zhan, Xiangang Li, Sen Song, and Yang Liu. 2023. Openchat: Advancing open-source language models with mixed-quality data. *ArXiv*, abs/2309.11235.

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou, et al. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. *Advances in neural information processing systems*, 35:24824–24837.

Dan Xu. 2012. Reduplication in languages: A case study of languages of china. *Plurality and classifiers across languages in China*.

Liang Xu, Xuanwei Zhang, and Qianqian Dong. 2020. Cluecorpus2020: A large-scale chinese corpus for pre-training language model. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.01355*.

Zhijun Xu, Siyu Yuan, Lingjie Chen, and Deqing Yang. 2024a. " a good pun is its own reword": Can large language models understand puns? *arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.13599*.

Zhijun Xu, Siyu Yuan, Lingjie Chen, and Deqing Yang. 2024b. “a good pun is its own reword”: Can large language models understand puns? In *Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*.

Aiyuan Yang, Bin Xiao, Binning Wang, Borong Zhang, Ce Bian, Chao Yin, Chenxu Lv, Da Pan, Dian Wang, Dong Yan, et al. 2023. Baichuan 2: Open large-scale language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.10305*.

Diyi Yang, Alon Lavie, Chris Dyer, and Eduard Hovy. 2015. Humor recognition and humor anchor extraction. In *Proceedings of the 2015 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing*, pages 2367–2376.

Zhangyue Yin, Qiushi Sun, Qipeng Guo, Zhiyuan Zeng, Xiaonan Li, Tianxiang Sun, Cheng Chang, Qinyuan Cheng, Ding Wang, Xiaofeng Mou, et al. 2024. Aggregation of reasoning: A hierarchical framework for enhancing answer selection in large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.12939*.

Toshihiko Yokogawa. 2001. Generation of japanese puns based on similarity of articulation. In *Proceedings Joint 9th IFSA World Congress and 20th NAFIPS International Conference (Cat. No. 01TH8569)*, volume 4, pages 2259–2264. IEEE.

Zhiwei Yu, Jiwei Tan, and Xiaojun Wan. 2018. A neural approach to pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 1650–1660.

Zhiwei Yu, Hongyu Zang, and Xiaojun Wan. 2020. Homophonic pun generation with lexically constrained rewriting. In *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*, pages 2870–2876, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jingjie Zeng, Liang Yang, Jiahao Kang, Yufeng Diao, Zhihao Yang, and Hongfei Lin. 2024. “barking up the right tree”, a gan-based pun generation model through semantic pruning. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024)*, pages 2119–2131.

Chenshuang Zhang, Chaoning Zhang, Mengchun Zhang, and In So Kweon. 2023a. Text-to-image diffusion models in generative ai: A survey. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.07909*.

Chenshuang Zhang, Chaoning Zhang, Sheng Zheng, Mengchun Zhang, Maryam Qamar, Sung-Ho Bae, and In So Kweon. 2023b. A survey on audio diffusion models: Text to speech synthesis and enhancement in generative ai. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.13336*.
