Early pun datasets, such as Paron (Sobkowiak, 1991) and Church (Bell et al., 2011), were primarily constructed from publicly available sources with a strong preference for specific domains, such as advertisements, church and newspaper comics, which are more suitable for use in domain-specific applications. Among the listed datasets, SemEval (Miller et al., 2017) is the first expert-annotated pun dataset, covering both homophonic and heterographic puns, and has since become the most widely references in subsequent research. Furthermore, recent developments have introduced some multimodal and multilingual pun datasets, which have expanded the scope and potential directions for research in pun generation.

## D Paper Collection

This section outlines the approach that we used to collect relevant papers in this survey. We initially searched for the keywords "pun research", "computational humour", and "pun dataset" on arXiv and Google Scholar, identifying a total of around 150 publications. Then, we filtered the papers that specifically focused on pun generation, resulting in approximately 30 papers. Subsequently, we applied the forward and backward snowball technique by examining the references and citations of these seed papers to identify additional relevant studies. We carefully reviewed all identified papers and ultimately compiled the findings into this survey.

## E Conventional Systems

In this section, we summarize the pun generation systems with conventional methods in Section 4.1, as shown in table 5. We here list the types of puns, task scenarios and languages corresponding to the system’s applications.

## F Related Surveys

To our knowledge, there are currently only surveys on computational humour research, while no focusing exclusively on puns. Amin and Burghardt (2020) provides a survey on humour generation, including generation systems, evaluation methods, and datasets. However, it does not specifically analyze the category of puns and only summarizes papers published prior to 2020. Nijholt et al. (2017) concluded a survey on designing humour and interacting with social media, virtual agents, social robots and smart environments. In addition, other humour studies have been examined from the perspectives of detection (Ramakristanaiah et al., 2021; Ganganwar et al., 2024) and recognition (Kalloniatis and Adamidis, 2024). Furthermore, there are some relevant surveys on creating writing, such as composition of poetry (Bena and Kalita, 2020; Elzohbi and Zhao, 2023), storytelling (Gieseke et al., 2021; Alhussain and Azmi, 2021), arts (Shahriar, 2022) and metaphor (Rai and Chakraverty, 2020; Ge et al., 2023). Our survey provides a comprehensive overview of various methods focused on pun generation, including those published in recent years.

## G Potential Research in Visual Puns

In Section 4.4, we reviewed studies on visual puns. However, to the best of our knowledge, research on the generation and evaluation of visual puns remains limited. Existing research primarily leverages multimodal models to generate textual descriptions incorporating visual pun elements as an intermediate task, using visual cues to aid in the comprehension of textual puns (Rebrii et al., 2022; Chung et al., 2024). Therefore, text-to-image generation presents a promising research direction in this field, as it can help mitigate comprehension challenges that arise in single-modality interpretation.

One potential approach is to simulate the multimodal training paradigm of CLIP (Radford et al., 2021) by constructing a pun-specific semantic vector space based on pun corpora. For text-to-image generation, this method would first encode the dual meanings of the pun, integrating both its original and pun-specific semantics, and then generate visual pun images by aligning them within the trained pun semantic space. For example, a mousetrap catches a white mouse, as illustrated in Figure 2. The word mouse can refer to both an animal and an electronic device. By encoding the dual meanings of this sentence, the trained pun-specific semantic space can generate a corresponding visual pun representation.

Additionally, multimodal approaches may be particularly suitable for non-English languages that rely on strokes rather than spelling. For example, in Chinese, certain character errors or newly coined characters can create pun-like effects, triggering humour through visual wordplay. Finally, models such as DeepFloyd IF (at StabilityAI, 2023), Stable Diffusion v1–5 (Rombach et al., 2021), and DALL-E (Ramesh et al., 2022), which are based
