of word senses in the generated sentence; **Readability** indicates whether the sentence is easy to understand semantically.

Most studies utilize the Likert Scale (Likert, 1932) to assess the metrics. This commonly used psychological measurement method and relies on numerical scales within a specific range to evaluate a given objective (Alhazmi et al., 2024). For example, Mittal et al. (2022) utilized a Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 5 (extremely) to rate the funniness and coherence of puns. In particular, for success metrics, some studies adopt a binary classification method in which evaluators determine whether the generated pun is successful by selecting *True* or *False* (Tian et al., 2022; Sun et al., 2022b; Chen et al., 2024).

With the development of LLMs, Chen et al. (2024) conducted a human A/B test, asking annotators to compare paired puns generated by their methods and ChatGPT and select more humorous puns. Since GPT-4’s evaluations aligned closely with those of human reviewers (Liang et al., 2024), Zeng et al. (2024) replaced human reviewers with GPT-4 to assess the metrics of readability, funniness, and coherence.

## 6 Challenges and Future Directions

This section outlines the challenges and explores potential directions for future work.

### 6.1 Multilingual Research

With advancements in pun generation research, the majority of studies focus primarily on English, as shown in Table 1, while studies on puns in other languages remain limited. Linguistically, different languages employ distinct mechanisms to create puns. For example, ideographic or mixed languages, such as Chinese and Japanese,tend to construct puns across multiple linguistic and cultural levels (Shao et al., 2013), such as pictographic form. More details of linguistics in other languages are provided in the Appendix I. Therefore, cross-language pun generation can also serve as a potential future work. Building on previous cross-linguistic research, using parallel data, including word-parallel (Zhao et al., 2020; Alqahtani et al., 2021) and sentence-parallel (Reimers and Gurevych, 2020; Heffernan et al., 2022), can be utilized to achieve targeted alignment of pun words. Additionally, some pioneering works can capture phonological and semantic puns through advanced learning approaches such as contrastive learning (Hu et al., 2024), modify pre-training schemes (Clark, 2020) and adapter tuning (Parović et al., 2022).

### 6.2 Multi-Modal Information

Multimodal information enables a more reliable understanding of the world (Stein, 1993), and incorporating multiple modalities into tasks can enhance the quality of pun generation. Although previous studies have introduced some multimodal evaluations and datasets (Zhang et al., 2024; Chung et al., 2024), few have specifically focused on the generation of multimodal puns. One potential method is shared representation (Ngiam et al., 2011), which involves integrating complementary information from different modalities to learn higher-performance representations (Lahat et al., 2015). For example, automatic speech recognition (Malik et al., 2021) can be leveraged to enhance homophonic puns. Another direction is to translate puns between modalities, i.e., cross-modal generation (Suzuki and Matsuo, 2022), including text-to-image (Zhang et al., 2023a), image-to-text (He and Deng, 2017), text-to-speech (Zhang et al., 2023b) and speech-to-text (Fortuna and Nunes, 2018)

### 6.3 PLMs Prompting Design

While prompt engineering has proven effective in enhancing text generation capabilities of LLMs (Liu et al., 2023), current research still faces significant limitations in generating puns, such as an over-reliance on overly simplistic or single-faceted prompts. Chain-of-thought prompting is a powerful technique that significantly improves the reasoning capabilities of LLMs (Wei et al., 2022). Therefore, the quality of pun generation can be enhanced by transferring CoT technique from other fields, such as using iterative bootstrapping (Sun et al., 2023), knowledge enhancement (Dhuliawala et al., 2023; He et al., 2024b), question decomposition (Trivedi et al., 2022) and self-ensemble (Yin et al., 2024). Furthermore, the result can be improved by optimizing CoT’s prompt construction, including by semi-automatic prompting (Shum et al., 2023) and automatic prompting (Zhang et al., 2022), as well as exploring diverse topological variants (Chu et al., 2024), such as chain structures (Olausson et al., 2023), tree structures (Ning et al., 2023), and graph structures (Besta et al., 2024).
