| MoP | En. | Ch. | Ar. | Sp. | Fr. | Ja. |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Derivation | ▲ | ▲ | ▲ | ▲ | ▲ | ▲ |
| Compounding | ▲ | ▲ | ● | ● | ● | ▲ |
| Clipping | ▲ | ● | ● | ● | ▲ | ▲ |
| Borrowing | ▲ | ● | ● | ● | ● | ▲ |
| Conversion | ▲ | ● | ● | ● | ● | ● |
| Reduplication | ● | ▲ | ● | ● | ▲ | ▲ |
| Onomatopoeia | ● | ▲ | ● | ● | ● | ▲ |

Table 6: Language family characteristics and pun findings in some major languages. MoP represents the morphological process. ▲ indicates that the morphological process is highly productive in the given language, whereas ● signifies the specific morphological process used in a limited or less research. En., Ch., Ar., Sp., Fr. and Ja. are English, Chinese, Arabic, Spanish, French and Japanese, separately.

shows some certain similarities with homographic puns, as both involve assigning different meanings or grammatical functions to the same spelling. Therefore, examining the morphological strategies that are prevalent in different languages provide a promising direction for exploring multilingual pun generation.

### I.2 Puns in Different Languages

From a linguistic perspective, we explore some methods used for generating puns across different languages, providing insights for automatic pun generation.

**Chinese.** Since Chinese only has about 1,300 different syllables (Duanmu, 2007), there are a large number of homophones in Chinese. This feature has enriched the forms of puns based mainly on homophones, while it has also increased the difficulty of analyzing homophonic puns. In addition, in research on logographic languages, Zheng et al. (2020) employed the direct access model and graded salience hypothesis (Glucksberg et al., 1986; Giora, 2003; Shen and Li, 2016) to investigate the cognitive processing of Chinese puns.

**French.** According to the CLEARPOND (Marian et al., 2012). Largy (1996) provides evidence the homophone effect can be manifested itself through the occurrence of noun-verb inflection errors. Furthermore, Kerleroux (2017) argue that homophony phenomena in French are primarily based on non-affixal derivational morphology, specifically conversion processes. In addition, Rensinghoff and Nemcová (2010) found a significant relationship between word length and polysemy in French, showing that shorter words tend to have a greater number of meanings. This observation may offer useful insights for research on pun recognition and generation in French.

**Arabic.** Most current research on Arabic puns focuses on translation tasks, especially on a few Arabic anthologies. Aqad et al. (2019) investigate the semantic dimensions of puns in the translation of the Quran. Mehawesh et al. (2023) highlight that the Arabic root-based morphological system differs fundamentally from that of English, and that Arabic frequently employs rhythm, repetition, and syllabic patterns to enhance punning effects, while English lacks a directly comparable rhythmic system.

**Japanese.** There are some studies on Japanese puns focusing on phonological features. Kawahara and Shinohara (2009) showed that Japanese puns need to maintain consonant similarity when they are created, and that the criterion for this depends on psychoacoustic information, while Yokogawa (2001) further quantified phonological similarity using features such as manner and place of articulation. Notably, Takanashi (2007) shows that using kanji and kana orthography to process Kyoka, which is a genre of playful Japanese poetry to characteristically employ puns for humour.

**Spanish.** Some studies on puns explored the pun translation in Spanish film titles into English (Díaz-Pérez, 2014; Díaz Pérez, 2008), while other studies analyzed the lexico-semantic applied in Spanish humour including homonymy, polysemy and intra-phrasal syllables (Bobchynets, 2022).

### I.3 Resource Available

We investigate the available linguistic resources across multiple languages provide a reference on multilingual puns for future research.

**English.** There is a large corpus of material available for the study of English puns, as introduced in Section 3. **Chinese.** In addition to the Chinese pun database mentioned in Section 3, several open Chinese linguistic resources are also available, such as THULAC (Li and Sun, 2009), Peking University CCL Corpus <sup>3</sup>, and CLUECorpus2020 (Xu et al., 2020). **French.** Various French language resources have been developed for language modeling, including those by (Sagot, 2010) and (Abeillé et al., 2003). **Arabic.** Jakubíček et al. (2013) constructed a large-scale Arabic general corpus using web crawling techniques. Additionally,

<sup>3</sup>http://ccl.pku.edu.cn:8080/ccl_corpus/
