Tenenbaum, and Roger Levy. 2023. Linc: A neurosymbolic approach for logical reasoning by combining language models with first-order logic provers. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.15164*.

OpenAI. 2023a. Gpt-3.5-turbo. https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-3-5-turbo. Accessed: 2025-01-05.

OpenAI. 2023b. Gpt-4 and gpt-4 turbo. https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-4-and-gpt-4-turbo. Accessed: 2025-01-05.

Marinela Parović, Goran Glavaš, Ivan Vulić, and Anna Korhonen. 2022. Bad-x: Bilingual adapters improve zero-shot cross-lingual transfer. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 1791–1799.

Adam Pauls and Dan Klein. 2012. Large-scale syntactic language modeling with treelets. In *Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 959–968.

Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher D Manning. 2014. Glove: Global vectors for word representation. In *Proceedings of the 2014 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (EMNLP)*, pages 1532–1543.

Jonas Pfeiffer, Ivan Vulić, Iryna Gurevych, and Sebastian Ruder. 2020. Mad-x: An adapter-based framework for multi-task cross-lingual transfer. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.00052*.

Ingo Plag. 2018. *Word-formation in English*. Cambridge university press.

Alec Radford. 2018. Improving language understanding by generative pre-training.

Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. 2021. Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In *International conference on machine learning*, pages 8748–8763. PmLR.

Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, Ilya Sutskever, et al. 2019. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. *OpenAI blog*, 1(8):9.

Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea Finn. 2024. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model. *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, 36.

Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. 2020. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. *Journal of machine learning research*, 21(140):1–67.

Sunny Rai and Shampa Chakraverty. 2020. A survey on computational metaphor processing. *ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR)*, 53(2):1–37.

C Ramakristanaiah, P Namratha, Rajendra Kumar Ganiya, and Midde Ranjit Reddy. 2021. A survey on humor detection methods in communications. In *2021 Fifth International Conference on I-SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud)(I-SMAC)*, pages 668–674. IEEE.

Aditya Ramesh, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alex Nichol, Casey Chu, and Mark Chen. 2022. Hierarchical text-conditional image generation with clip latents. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.06125*, 1(2):3.

Chandra Sekhar Rao. 2018. The significance of the words borrowed into english language. *Journal for Research Scholars and Professionals of Language Teaching*, 6(2).

Mohammad Sadegh Rasooli and Joel R. Tetreault. 2015. Yara parser: A fast and accurate dependency parser. *Computing Research Repository*, arXiv:1503.06733. Version 2.

Oleksandr Rebrii, Inna Rebrii, and Olha Pieshkova. 2022. When words and images play together in a multimodal pun: From creation to translation. *Lublin Studies in Modern Languages and Literature*, 46(2):85–97.

Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2020. Making monolingual sentence embeddings multilingual using knowledge distillation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.09813*.

Susanne Rensinghoff and Emília Nemcová. 2010. On word length and polysemy in french. *Glottotheory*, 3.

Graeme Ritchie. 2005. Computational mechanisms for pun generation. In *Proceedings of the Tenth European Workshop on Natural Language Generation (ENLG-05)*.

Brian Roark, Lawrence Wolf-Sonkin, Christo Kirov, Sabrina J Mielke, Cibu Johny, Isin Demirshahin, and Keith Hall. 2020. Processing south asian languages written in the latin script: the dakshina dataset. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.01176*.

Guillermo Rojo. 2016. Corpes xxi. *Lingüística de corpus y lingüística histórica iberorrománica*, page 197.

Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. 2021. High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. *Preprint*, arXiv:2112.10752.

Benoît Sagot. 2010. The lefff, a freely available and large-coverage morphological and syntactic lexicon for french. In *7th international conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2010)*.
