Tuo Zhang, Tiantian Feng, Yibin Ni, Mengqin Cao, Ruying Liu, Katharine Butler, Yanjun Weng, Mi Zhang, Shrikanth S Narayanan, and Salman Avestimehr. 2024. Creating a lens of chinese culture: A multimodal dataset for chinese pun rebus art understanding. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.10318*.

Zhuosheng Zhang, Aston Zhang, Mu Li, and Alex Smola. 2022. Automatic chain of thought prompting in large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03493*.

Wei Zhao, Steffen Eger, Johannes Bjerva, and Isabelle Augenstein. 2020. Inducing language-agnostic multilingual representations. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.09112*.

Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric P. Xing, Haotong Zhang, Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena. *ArXiv*, abs/2306.05685.

Wei Zheng and Xiaolu Wang. 2023. Humor experience facilitates ongoing cognitive tasks: Evidence from pun comprehension. *Frontiers in Psychology*, 14:1127275.

Wei Zheng, Yizhen Wang, and Xiaolu Wang. 2020. The effect of salience on chinese pun comprehension: a visual world paradigm study. *Frontiers in Psychology*, 11:116.

Yukun Zhu. 2015. Aligning books and movies: Towards story-like visual explanations by watching movies and reading books. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.06724*.

## A Pun Categories

We outline the characteristics of different types of puns for clearer differentiation, including phonetic, graphic, meaning, and example, as shown in Table 3. "Same", "similar" and "different" respectively indicate whether the pun word and its substitute word same, similar, or different in phonic, graphic and meaning.

## B Additional Evaluation

In this section, we outline the limitations of the evaluation metrics and supplement additional supporting details.

### B.1 Limitations

#### B.1.1 Automatic Evaluation

Methods such as Surprisal-based evaluation are influenced by context dependency. In particular, local Surprisal is highly sensitive to the choice of the local window size. In addition, metrics such as Dist-1 and Dist-2, which measure lexical and n-gram diversity based on statistical and information-theoretic principles, fail to capture semantic diversity. Similarly, the Perplexity score (PPLs) evaluates text based on the probability of model-generated words, where a lower PPLs indicates better predictive performance but does not necessarily imply semantic coherence or logical consistency.

#### B.1.2 Human Evaluation

Although human evaluation is considered the gold standard, it still exhibits a significant degree of subjectivity in metrics such as readability and funniness. This subjectivity primarily stems from differences in participants’ cultural backgrounds and knowledge levels (Chen and Zhang, 2023). However, many studies claim to have employed qualified workers or annotators, while they failed to provide detailed information about the evaluators’ backgrounds, which can easily lead to variability in the final assessments. Therefore, imposing clearer selection criteria for participants may help mitigate the impact of subjectivity in evaluation.

### B.2 Supplement Details

**Suprisal.** Based on (He et al., 2019), the pun word $w^p$ is more surprising relative to its alternative word $w^a$ in the local context, while is less in the global context. Therefore, $S_{ratio}$ is defined as a ratio to balance the metric:

$$
S_{ratio} :=
\begin{cases}
-1, & S_{local} < 0 \text{ or } S_{global} < 0,\\
S_{local}/S_{global}, & \text{otherwise.}
\end{cases}
\tag{9}
$$

where $S_{local}$ and $S_{local}$ are local surprisal and global surprisal, respectively. A higher value of $S_{ratio}$ indicates a better-quality pun.

## C Dataset

The pun dataset for different types are summarized in Table 4. We list the datasets in five dimensions:

- The type of puns.
- The source of the datasets.
- The total number of the datasets.
- The language of the datastes.
- Is the dataset publicly available?
