Wei Zheng, Yizhen Wang, and Xiaolu Wang. 2020. The effect of salience on chinese pun comprehension: a visual world paradigm study. *Frontiers in Psychology*, 11:116.

Yukun Zhu. 2015. Aligning books and movies: Towards story-like visual explanations by watching movies and reading books. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.06724*.

## A Pun Categories

We outline the characteristics of different types of puns for clearer differentiation, including phonetic, graphic, meaning, and example, as shown in Table 3. "Same", "similar" and "different" respectively indicate whether the pun word and its substitute word same, similar, or different in phonic, graphic and meaning.

## B Additional Evaluation

In this section, we outline the limitations of the evaluation metrics and supplement additional supporting details.

### B.1 Limitations

#### B.1.1 Automatic Evaluation

Methods such as Surprisal-based evaluation are influenced by context dependency. In particular, local Surprisal is highly sensitive to the choice of the local window size. In addition, metrics such as Dist-1 and Dist-2, which measure lexical and n-gram diversity based on statistical and information-theoretic principles, fail to capture semantic diversity. Similarly, the Perplexity score (PPLs) evaluates text based on the probability of model-generated words, where a lower PPLs indicates better predictive performance but does not necessarily imply semantic coherence or logical consistency.

#### B.1.2 Human Evaluation

Although human evaluation is considered the gold standard, it still exhibits a significant degree of subjectivity in metrics such as readability and funniness. This subjectivity primarily stems from differences in participants’ cultural backgrounds and knowledge levels (Chen and Zhang, 2023). However, many studies claim to have employed qualified workers or annotators, while they failed to provide detailed information about the evaluators’ backgrounds, which can easily lead to variability in the final assessments. Therefore, imposing clearer selection criteria for participants may help mitigate the impact of subjectivity in evaluation.

### B.2 Supplement Details

**Suprisal.** Based on (He et al., 2019), the pun word $w^p$ is more surprising relative to its alternative word $w^a$ in the local context, while is less in the global context. Therefore, $S_{ratio}$ is defined as a ratio to balance the metric:

$$
S_{ratio} =
\begin{cases}
-1, & S_{local} < 0 \text{ or } S_{global} < 0, \\
S_{local}/S_{global}, & \text{otherwise.}
\end{cases}
\tag{9}
$$

where $S_{local}$ and $S_{local}$ are local surprisal and global surprisal, respectively. A higher value of $S_{ratio}$ indicates a better-quality pun.

## C Dataset

The pun dataset for different types are summarized in Table 4. We list the datasets in five dimensions:

- The type of puns.

- The source of the datasets.

- The total number of the datasets.

- The language of the datastes.

- Is the dataset publicly available?

Early pun datasets, such as Paron (Sobkowiak, 1991) and Church (Bell et al., 2011), were primarily constructed from publicly available sources with a strong preference for specific domains, such as advertisements, church and newspaper comics, which are more suitable for use in domain-specific applications. Among the listed datasets, SemEval (Miller et al., 2017) is the first expert-annotated pun dataset, covering both homophonic and heterographic puns, and has since become the most widely references in subsequent research. Furthermore, recent developments have introduced some multimodal and multilingual pun datasets, which have expanded the scope and potential directions for research in pun generation.

## D Paper Collection

This section outlines the approach that we used to collect relevant papers in this survey. We initially searched for the keywords "pun research", "computational humour", and "pun dataset" on arXiv and Google Scholar, identifying a total of around 150 publications. Then, we filtered the papers that specifically focused on pun generation, resulting in approximately 30 papers. Subsequently, we applied the forward and backward snowball technique
