<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th rowspan="2">Paper</th>
<th colspan="7">Automatic Evaluation</th>
<th colspan="6">Human Evaluation</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>PPLs.</th>
<th>D1&amp;2.</th>
<th>Succ.</th>
<th>Ambi.</th>
<th>Dist</th>
<th>Surp.</th>
<th>Unus.</th>
<th>Succ.</th>
<th>Funn.</th>
<th>Flun.</th>
<th>Info.</th>
<th>Cohe.</th>
<th>Read.</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>(Yu et al., 2018)</td>
<td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
<td>×</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>✓</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(He et al., 2019)</td>
<td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>✓</td>
<td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Luo et al., 2019)</td>
<td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td>
<td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Yu et al., 2020)</td>
<td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
<td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Diao et al., 2020)</td>
<td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td>
<td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Mittal et al., 2022)</td>
<td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
<td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Tian et al., 2022)</td>
<td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td>
<td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Sun et al., 2022b)</td>
<td>×</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
<td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Zeng et al., 2024)</td>
<td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
<td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Chen et al., 2024)</td>
<td>×</td><td>✓</td><td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
<td>✓</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td><td>×</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 2: Main methods for automatic and human evaluation of pun generation. PPLs., D1&2., Succ., Ambi., Dist., Surp., and Unus. denote the metrics of Perplexity Score, Dist-1 & Dist-2, Structure Succ., Ambiguity, Distinctiveness, Surprisal, and Unusualness, respectively. Similarly, Succ., Funn., Gram., Flun., Info., Cohe., and Read. represent Success, Funniness, Grammar, Fluency, Informativeness, Coherence, and Readability. ✓ indicates metrics that are used, while × indicates metrics that are not used. The symbol “-” signifies that the method is not applicable to this evaluation.

probabilities from language models are also utilised for pun evaluation (He et al., 2019; Pauls and Klein, 2012), which is formulated as follows:

$$
Unusualness \overset{def}{=} -\frac{1}{n}\log\left(\frac{p(x_1,\cdots,x_n)}{\prod_{i=1}^{n}p(x_i)}\right)
\tag{4}
$$

where $p(x_1,\cdots,x_n)$ and $p(x_i)$ are the joint and independent probabilities, respectively. A higher metric result suggests the presence of uncommon collocations, innovative sentence structures, and other linguistic features, aligning with the characteristics of puns.

**Dist-1 & Dist-2.** Dist-1 and Dist-2 focus on the diversity of words and phrases in the generated text (Li et al., 2015), which calculates the proportion of unique n-grams to the total number of n-grams, as formulated Dist-1, for example:

$$
\text{Dist-1}=\frac{unique\ unigrams}{total\ generated\ words}
\tag{5}
$$

$$
\text{Dist-2}=\frac{unique\ bigrams}{total\ generated\ bigrams}
\tag{6}
$$

where a higher Dist-1 and Dist-2 score indicates greater diversity in the generated sentences, whereas a lower score suggests more generic and repetitive text.

### 5.1.3 Fluency

**Perplexity score** (Jelinek et al., 1977). This score evaluates whether the generated puns are natural and fluent. In practice, some studies (Yu et al., 2018) quantified by using the generative language model, formally described as follows:

$$
perplexity=\exp\left(-\frac{1}{N}\sum_{i=1}^{N}\log P(x_i|x_{<i})\right)
\tag{7}
$$

where $P(x_i|x_{<i})$ is the probability of the $i$-th token of a pun, given the sequence of tokens ahead.

**Structure Succ.** The evaluation measures the rate of contextual word and pun word integration, specifically the proportion of successful inclusion of pun words in the generated puns, formally shown as follows:

$$
Succ=\frac{t_{correct}}{T}\times 100\%
\tag{8}
$$

where $t_{correct}$ is the number of generated puns with correctly included pun words and $T$ is the total number of generated puns.

## 5.2 Human Evaluation

In the task of pun generation, since puns are a creative form of language (Yu et al., 2020), human evaluation is essential and intuitively assesses the quality of the generated puns. The primary evaluation metrics are: **Success** recognises whether the generated sentence qualifies as a successful pun based on the definition from (Miller et al., 2017); **Funniness** evaluates the humour and comedic quality of the generated sentences; **Fluency** shows whether the sentence is grammatically correct and flows naturally; **Informativeness** rates whether the generated sentences effectively convey meaningful and specific information; **Coherence** assesses the logical consistency and contextual suitability
