trees as input and generating pun text as output.

#### 4.3.2 PLMs with Prompting

Prompting (Liu et al., 2021) refers to a specially designed input mode intended to guide PLMs, especially for LLMs, in performing specific tasks (Alhazmi et al., 2024). However, there are few studies exploring pun generation specifically from the perspective of prompting. Mittal et al. (2022) provides examples of the target pun along with its two interpretations and instructions for generating the pun in GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) to serve as a baseline comparison model. Based on the Chain-of-Thought prompting approach (Wei et al., 2022), Sarrof (2025) designed a novel method that integrates homophone and transliteration modules to enhance the quality of pun generation.

In addition, Xu et al. (2024a) selected a range of prominent LLMs to evaluate their capabilities on pun generation, including both open-source models in Llama2-7B-Chat (Touvron et al., 2023), Mistral-7B (Jiang et al., 2023), Vicuna-7B (Zheng et al., 2023), and OpenChat-7B (Wang et al., 2023), and closed-source models in Gemini-Pro (Google, 2023), GPT-3.5-Turbo (OpenAI, 2023a), Claude3-Opus (Anthropic, 2024), and GPT-4-Turbo (OpenAI, 2023b). These studies reveal that although LLMs still exhibit limitations in generating creative and humorous puns, their demonstrated potential highlights a developmental trend in this field. Future research can further optimize existing LLMs to enhance their performance in pun generation tasks.

### 4.4 Visual-Language Models

There are currently some preliminary studies on visual puns. Rebrii et al. (2022) explored the cross-lingual translation of puns combined with visual elements. Chung et al. (2024) employed the DALLE-3 (Betker et al., 2023) to generate images that illustrated the meanings of puns based on textual puns. Zhang et al. (2024) leveraged their established dataset to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of large vision-language models in visual pun comprehension. However, to the best of our knowledge, there are no dedicated studies on visual pun generation, which is a potential research direction.

## 5 Evaluation Strategies

In this section, we examine both automatic and human evaluation methods for pun generation. Table 2 summarizes the primary metrics for evaluation and more details are provided in the Appendix B.

### 5.1 Automatic Evaluation

The automatic evaluation metrics can be categorized into funniness, diversity and fluency based on the intention and definition.

#### 5.1.1 Funniness

**Ambiguity & Distinctiveness.** Kao et al. (2016) introduced the metrics of *ambiguity* and *distinctiveness* based on information theory. These metrics integrate computational models of general language understanding and pun features to quantitatively predict humour with fine-grained precision (Kao et al., 2016). Specifically, ambiguity refers to the uncertainty arising from multiple possible meanings within a sentence, which is formulated as:

$$
Amb(M) = - \sum_{k \in \{a,b\}} P(m_k \mid \vec{w}) \log P(m_k \mid \vec{w})
$$

$$
\tag{1}
$$

where $\vec{w}$ is a vector of observed content words in a sentence and $m_k$ is the latent sentence meaning. Higher ambiguity allows the sentence to better support both the pun and its alternative meanings.

Distinctiveness evaluates the differences between word sets that support distinct meanings within a sentence using the symmetrized Kullback-Leibler divergence $D_{KL}$, defined as follows:

$$
Dist(F_a, F_b) = D_{KL}(F_a || F_b) + D_{KL}(F_b || F_a)
$$

$$
\tag{2}
$$

where $F_a$ and $F_b$ represent the set of words in a sentence that support two different meanings along with their probability distributions. The high distinctiveness indicates that the distributions of the two-word groups differ significantly, which enhances the humorous effect.

**Surprisal.** Surprisal is a quantitative metric for surprise based on the pun word and the alternative word given local and global contexts (He et al., 2019). The formulation of local surprisal and global surprisal are defined as follows:

$$
\begin{aligned}
S_{\text{local}} &:= S(x_{p-d:p-1}, x_{p+1:p+d}), \\
S_{\text{global}} &:= S(x_{1:p-1}, x_{p+1:n}),
\end{aligned}
\tag{3}
$$

where $S$ is the log-likelihood ratio of two events, $x_1, \ldots, x_n$ is a sequence of tokens, $p$ is the pun word and $d$ is the local window size. Finally, a unified metric is defined as a ratio of local-global surprisal to quantify the success of pun generation.

#### 5.1.2 Diversity

**Unusualness.** Given the uniqueness of puns, *unusualness* measures based on the normalised log
