Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC) produced Arabic Gigaword[^4], which contains approximately 1 million news documents totaling 400 million words of Arabic text. **Spanish.** Some Spanish linguistic resources have been developed by Real Academia Española (RAE) such as CREA (Sánchez, 2005) and (Rojo, 2016) which provide extensive collections of both written and spoken samples from Latin American and European varieties of Spanish. **Japanese.** A range of Japanese corpora are available for lexicological research and language modeling. Notable examples include the Balanced Corpus of Contemporary Written Japanese (BCCWJ) (Maekawa et al., 2014), the Corpus of Spontaneous Japanese (CSJ) (Maekawa et al., 2000), and jaTenTen, a web corpus compiled for large-scale linguistic analysis (Jakubíček et al., 2013).

## J Puns in LLMs

Puns are considered a valuable tool for evaluating LLMs in their ability to understand linguistic humour and wordplay (Xu et al., 2024a). They help reveal the models’ capabilities and limitations in tasks that require semantic ambiguity, phonetic similarity, and contextual reasoning. Specifically, puns enable a systematic assessment of LLMs’ proficiency in nuanced linguistic reasoning within creative language applications, particularly in tasks such as pun recognition, explanation, and generation (Blinov et al., 2019; Dsilva, 2024).

Recent studies (Xu et al., 2024b; Kim and Chilton, 2025) have revealed several insights regarding puns in LLMs: (1) While most large language models (LLMs) are highly sensitive to prompt bias in recognition tasks, some demonstrate more stable performance and achieve higher recognition accuracy. Moreover, their performance can be further improved by incorporating definitions and examples. (2) Most LLMs are capable of recognizing pun words. Although alternative words may not significantly affect the recognition of a pun, they play an important role in clearly explaining its meaning. Some LLMs demonstrate explanation quality comparable to, or even surpassing, that of humans. However, common errors observed among LLMs include: incorrect identification of pun type, misidentification of the pun word and insufficient analysis of the dual meanings. (3) LLMs show particular skill in generating homographic puns. Providing contextual words significantly improve the quality of these puns. However, a “Lazy Pun Generation” pattern has been observed, where the model tends to reuse the same pun words repeatedly, indicating a lack of creativity. While some of LLMs have achieved state-of-the-art performance in generation tasks, their humour generation still falls short compared to that of humans.

[^4]: https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2003T12
