Miloš Jakubíček, Adam Kilgarriff, Vojtěch Kovář, Pavel Rychlý, and Vít Suchomel. 2013. The tenten corpus family. In *7th international corpus linguistics conference CL*, volume 2013, pages 125–127. Valladolid.

Fred Jelinek, Robert L Mercer, Lalit R Bahl, and James K Baker. 1977. Perplexity—a measure of the difficulty of speech recognition tasks. *The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America*, 62(S1):S63–S63.

Albert Qiaochu Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de Las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, L’elio Renard Lavaud, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Teven Le Scao, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, and William El Sayed. 2023. Mistral 7b. *ArXiv*, abs/2310.06825.

Antonios Kalloniatis and Panagiotis Adamidis. 2024. Computational humor recognition: a systematic literature review. *Artificial Intelligence Review*, 58(2):43.

Justine T Kao, Roger Levy, and Noah D Goodman. 2016. A computational model of linguistic humor in puns. *Cognitive science*, 40(5):1270–1285.

Shigeto Kawahara and Kazuko Shinohara. 2009. The role of psychoacoustic similarity in japanese puns: A corpus study1. *Journal of linguistics*, 45(1):111–138.

Françoise Kerleroux. 2017. Derivationally based homophony in french. In *Lexical Polycategoriality*, pages 59–78. John Benjamins Publishing Company.

Sean Kim and Lydia B. Chilton. 2025. Ai humor generation: Cognitive, social and creative skills for effective humor.

KitKat. 2023. Global campaign: Have a break. https://www.kitkat.com. Retrieved from https://www.kitkat.com.

Dana Lahat, Tülay Adali, and Christian Jutten. 2015. Multimodal data fusion: an overview of methods, challenges, and prospects. *Proceedings of the IEEE*, 103(9):1449–1477.

Pierre Largy. 1996. The homophone effect in written french: The case of verb-noun inflection errors. *Language and cognitive processes*, 11(3):217–256.

Jiwei Li, Michel Galley, Chris Brockett, Jianfeng Gao, and Bill Dolan. 2015. A diversity-promoting objective function for neural conversation models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1510.03055*.

Zhongguo Li and Maosong Sun. 2009. Punctuation as implicit annotations for chinese word segmentation. *Computational Linguistics*, 35(4):505–512.

Weixin Liang, Yuhui Zhang, Hancheng Cao, Binglu Wang, Daisy Yi Ding, Xinyu Yang, Kailas Vodrahalli, Siyu He, Daniel Scott Smith, Yian Yin, et al. 2024. Can large language models provide useful feedback on research papers? a large-scale empirical analysis. *NEJM AI*, 1(8):AIoa2400196.

Rensis Likert. 1932. A technique for the measurement of attitudes. *Archives of psychology*.

Pengfei Liu, Weizhe Yuan, Jinlan Fu, Zhengbao Jiang, Hiroaki Hayashi, and Graham Neubig. 2021. Pre-train, prompt, and predict: A systematic survey of prompting methods in natural language processing. *ACM Computing Surveys*, 55:1 – 35.

Pengfei Liu, Weizhe Yuan, Jinlan Fu, Zhengbao Jiang, Hiroaki Hayashi, and Graham Neubig. 2023. Pre-train, prompt, and predict: A systematic survey of prompting methods in natural language processing. *ACM Computing Surveys*, 55(9):1–35.

Teresa Lucas. 2004. *Deciphering the meaning of puns in learning English as a second language: A study of triadic interaction*. Ph.D. thesis, The Florida State University.

Fuli Luo, Shunyao Li, Pengcheng Yang, Baobao Chang, Zhifang Sui, Xu Sun, et al. 2019. Pun-gan: Generative adversarial network for pun generation. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.10950*.

Kikuo Maekawa, Hanae Koiso, Sadaoki Furui, and Hitoshi Isahara. 2000. Spontaneous speech corpus of japanese. In *LREC*, volume 6, pages 1–5. Citeseer.

Kikuo Maekawa, Makoto Yamazaki, Toshinobu Ogiso, Takehiko Maruyama, Hideki Ogura, Wakako Kashino, Hanae Koiso, Masaya Yamaguchi, Makiro Tanaka, and Yasuharu Den. 2014. Balanced corpus of contemporary written japanese. *Language resources and evaluation*, 48:345–371.

Mishaim Malik, Muhammad Kamran Malik, Khawar Mehmood, and Imran Makhdoom. 2021. Automatic speech recognition: a survey. *Multimedia Tools and Applications*, 80:9411–9457.

Ruli Manurung, Graeme Ritchie, Helen Pain, Annalu Waller, Dave O’Mara, and Rolf Black. 2008. The construction of a pun generator for language skills development. *Applied Artificial Intelligence*, 22(9):841–869.

Viorica Marian, James Bartolotti, Sarah Chabal, and Anthony Shook. 2012. Clearpond: Cross-linguistic easy-access resource for phonological and orthographic neighborhood densities.

Justin McKay. 2002. Generation of idiom-based witticisms to aid second language learning. *Stock et al*, pages 77–87.

Mohammad M Mehawesh, Alshunnaq Mo’tasim-Bellah, Naser M Alnawasrah, and Noor N Saadeh. 2023. Challenges in translating puns in some selections of arabic poetry into english. *Journal of Language Teaching and Research*, 14(4):995–1004.

Tomas Mikolov. 2013. Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1301.3781*, 3781.
