*Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, volume 38, pages 17682–17690.

James Betker, Gabriel Goh, Li Jing, Tim Brooks, Jianfeng Wang, Linjie Li, Long Ouyang, Juntang Zhuang, Joyce Lee, Yufei Guo, et al. 2023. Improving image generation with better captions. *Computer Science*. https://cdn. openai. com/papers/dall-e-3. pdf, 2(3):8.

Kim Binsted. 1996. Machine humour: An implemented model of puns.

Kim Binsted and Graeme Ritchie. 1994. *An implemented model of punning riddles*. University of Edinburgh, Department of Artificial Intelligence.

Vladislav Blinov, Valeria Bolotova-Baranova, and Pavel Braslavski. 2019. Large dataset and language model fun-tuning for humor recognition. In *Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 4027–4032.

Lyubov Bobchynets. 2022. Lexico-semantic means of pun creation in spanish jokes about la gomera by caco santacruz. *The European Journal of Humour Research*, 10(1):22–28.

Hugh Bredin. 1996. Onomatopoeia as a figure and a linguistic principle. *New Literary History*, 27(3):555–569.

Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M. Ziegler, Jeff Wu, Clemens Winter, Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Ma teus z Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. *ArXiv*, abs/2005.14165.

Garland Cannon. 1988. Chinese borrowings in english. *American Speech*, 63(1):3–33.

Ronald Carter. 2015. *Language and creativity: The art of common talk*. Routledge.

Xuemei Chen and Tiefu Zhang. 2023. Individual variations in british humour appreciation among chinese–english bilinguals: Role of socialisation and acculturation. *International Journal of Bilingualism*, 27(1):3–21.

Yang Chen, Chong Yang, Tu Hu, Xinhao Chen, Man Lan, Li Cai, Xinlin Zhuang, Xuan Lin, Xin Lu, and Aimin Zhou. 2024. Are u a joke master? pun generation via multi-stage curriculum learning towards a humor llm. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics ACL 2024*, pages 878–890.

Zheng Chu, Jingchang Chen, Qianglong Chen, Weijiang Yu, Tao He, Haotian Wang, Weihua Peng, Ming Liu, Bing Qin, and Ting Liu. 2024. Navigate through enigmatic labyrinth a survey of chain of thought reasoning: Advances, frontiers and future. In *Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 1173–1203.

Jiwan Chung, Seungwon Lim, Jaehyun Jeon, Seungbeen Lee, and Youngjae Yu. 2024. Can visual language models resolve textual ambiguity with visual cues? let visual puns tell you! *arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.01023*.

K Clark. 2020. Electra: Pre-training text encoders as discriminators rather than generators. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.10555*.

Mathieu Dehouck and Marine Delaborde. 2025. Rule-based approaches to the automatic generation of puns based on given names in french. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 18–22.

Dirk Delabastita. 2016. *Traductio: Essays on punning and translation*. Routledge.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Shehzaad Dhuliawala, Mojtaba Komeili, Jing Xu, Roberta Raileanu, Xian Li, Asli Celikyilmaz, and Jason Weston. 2023. Chain-of-verification reduces hallucination in large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.11495*.

Yufeng Diao, Liang Yang, Xiaochao Fan, Yonghe Chu, Di Wu, Shaowu Zhang, and Hongfei Lin. 2020. Afpun-gan: Ambiguity-fluency generative adversarial network for pun generation. In *Natural Language Processing and Chinese Computing: 9th CCF International Conference, NLPCC 2020, Zhengzhou, China, October 14–18, 2020, Proceedings, Part I 9*, pages 604–616. Springer.

Francisco Javier Díaz Pérez. 2008. Wordplay in film titles: Translating english puns into spanish. *Babel: International Journal of Translation/Revue Internationale de la Traduction/Revista Internacional de Traducción*, 54(1).

Francisco Javier Díaz-Pérez. 2014. Relevance theory and translation: Translating puns in spanish film titles into english. *Journal of pragmatics*, 70:108–129.

Elmira Djafarova. 2008. Why do advertisers use puns? a linguistic perspective. *Journal of Advertising Research*, 48(2):267–275.

Ryan Rony Dsilva. 2024. Augmenting Large Language Models with Humor Theory To Understand Puns.
