**Multimodal Dataset.** Zhang et al. (2024) compiled a large collection of Chinese historical visual puns and provided detailed annotations, including the identification of prominent visual elements, matching of these elements with their symbolic meanings and interpretations. Chung et al. (2024) selected a subset of homophonic and heterogeneous puns from the SemEval dataset and supplemented it with corresponding explanation images.

## 4 Methodology

In this section, we provide an overview of existing approaches to pun generation.

### 4.1 Conventional Models

Early conventional methods are typically through template-based construction. In linguistics, a template refers to a textual structure consisting of predefined slots that can be populated with various variables (Amin and Burghardt, 2020). Binsted and Ritchie (1994) developed the simple question-answer system of pun-generator Joke Analysis and Production Engine (JAPE), which was improved in subsequent versions including JAPE-2 (Binsted, 1996) and JAPE-3. The model incorporates two primary structures: schemata, which are used to explore the relationships between different keywords, and templates, which are designed to generate the basic framework for puns. Inspired by JAPE, Manurung et al. (2008) designed the STANDUP system, which expands and varies the elements generated by puns through further semantic and phonological analysis, for children with complex communication needs. Furthermore, Tyler et al. (2020) expanded upon the JAPE system by incorporating more recent knowledge bases and designed the PAUL BOT system, enhancing its capabilities and flexibility in automated pun generation.

Additionally, HCPP (Venour, 2000) and WISCRAIC (McKay, 2002) systems both implement models for the specific subclass of puns about homonym common phrase and idiom-based witticisms according to semantic associations, respectively. Hempelmann (2003) studies target recoverability, arguing that a robust model for target alternative words recovery provides the necessary foundation for heterographic pun generation. Ritchie (2005) considered pun generation from the broader perspective of NLG. They analyse the differences in mechanisms between pun generation and conventional NLG, as well as the computational methods that could potentially accomplish this task. As for the research on non-English puns, Dybala et al. (2008) designed a Japanese pun generator as part of a conversational system, while Dehouck and Delaborde (2025) proposed a generator for automatically generating French puns based on a given name and a word or phrase using rules.

Since building templates manually is a tedious and time-consuming task, Hong and Ong (2009) proposed Template-Based Pun Extractor and Generator (T-PEG) automatically identify, extract and represent the word relationships in a template, and then use these templates as patterns for the computer to generate its own puns. Valitutti et al. (2009) generated funny puns by implementing GraphLaugh to automatically generate different types of lexical associations and visualize them through a dynamic graph. They also explored a method for automatically generating humour through the substitution of words in short texts (Valitutti et al., 2013).

### 4.2 Classic DNNs

With the development of deep learning, pun generation has increasingly been implemented using deep neural networks, including Sequence-to-Sequence (Seq2Seq) (Sutskever, 2014) and Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) (Goodfellow et al., 2014). In general, Seq2Seq models map input sequences, such as words and phrases, to output the pun sentence, by maximising the conditional log-likelihood of the generated sequence.

Yu et al. (2018) represented the first attempt to apply deep neural networks to generate homographic puns without specific training data by developing a conditional language model (Mou et al., 2015) that creates sentences containing a target word with dual meanings. Building on this generator, Luo et al. (2019) introduced a novel discriminator, which is a word sense classifier with a single-layer bi-directional LSTM, to provide a well-structured ambiguity reward for the generator. Diao et al. (2020) replaced the conventional LSTM network structure with ON-LSTM (Shen et al., 2018) to further enhance performance. Additionally, He et al. (2019) and Yu et al. (2020) used the Seq2Seq model to rewrite the sentence so that it remains grammatically correct after replacing pun words.

In general, classic DNNs can generate puns that are more flexible compared to conventional models by fitting both general and pun datasets. However,
