[Figure: A white computer mouse on a floor next to/over two mousetraps; the traps show the label “VICTOR”.]

Figure 2: A visual pun example features a white mouse and a mousetrap, where the combination exploits the double meaning of the word “mouse”.

(c) Always trust a glue salesman. They tend to <u>stick</u> to their word.

The phrase “stick to their word” refers to the act of keeping a promise in common English expressions. However, the meaning of “stick” is also directly associated with the adhesive properties of “glue”, which artfully plays on the dual meanings of the word “stick”.

## 2.4 Visual Puns

Visual puns are a form of artistic expression that utilises images or visual elements to create double meanings (Smith et al., 2008). A typical example of a visual pun from Wikipedia[^2] is shown in Figure 2. The figure leverages the multiple meanings of the word "mouse" based on the computer device and animal, thereby creating a pun effect by combining the computer mouse and mousetrap.

# 3 Dataset

In this section, we present the current datasets that have been used and constructed for pun research. We classified the datasets into generic datasets, derived datasets and human-annotated datasets. For the detailed table of the pun dataset, please refer to Appendix C.

## 3.1 Generic Datasets

In the early days of neural network technology, due to the difficulty in obtaining adequate data to train seq2seq models for some specific tasks (Yu et al., 2018), most research in pun generation relied on general datasets to train conditional language models, enabling them to capture fundamental semantic relationships. For example, some pun generation studies use the English Wikipedia corpus to train the language model (Yu et al., 2018; Luo et al., 2019; Diao et al., 2020), while others rely on Book-Corpus (Zhu, 2015; Yu et al., 2020) as a generic corpus for retrieval and training. Sarrof (2025) proposed a corss-lingual homophone identification algorithm and analysed the distribution of Hindi words in Latin and Devanagari scripts using C4 (Raffel et al., 2020) and The Pile (Gao et al., 2020), and then tested on the Dakshina dataset (Roark et al., 2020).

## 3.2 Derived Datasets

The derived datasets are created as the new datasets by processing, transforming, or extracting specific details from general data. In this section, we present a list of derived datasets and outline the domains used in their creation. Sobkowiak (1991) collected 3850 puns from advertisements and conversation, while Hempelmann (2003) selected a subset for the automatic generation of heterophonic puns. Lucas (2004) proposed a tiny pun corpus that relies on lexical ambiguity from newspaper comics. Bell et al. (2011) created a 373 puns dataset from church marquees and literature to study wordplay in religious advertising. In addition, several studies have created pun datasets by filtering data from specialised joke websites. For example, both Yang et al. (2015) and Kao et al. (2016) curated pun datasets by crawling data from the "Pun of the Day" website. Jaech et al. (2016) compiled a homophonic pun dataset from Tumblr, Reddit, and Twitter to facilitate the automatic recovery of the target word in given puns.

## 3.3 Human Annotated

This section provides some details of human-annotated pun datasets. **SemEval.** Miller et al. (2017) released two manually annotated pun datasets based on (Miller and Turković, 2016) and (Miller, 2016) including both homophonic and heterographic puns, which is one of the most commonly used datasets in the pun generation community. **SemEval Enhancements.** Sun et al. (2022b) augmented the SemEval dataset by adding pun data combined with a given context and provided annotations on the adaptation between context words and their corresponding pun pairs. Furthermore, Sun et al. (2022a) added the fine-grained funniness ratings and natural language explanations based on the SemEval dataset. **ChinesePun.** Chen et al. (2024) introduced the first datasets for Chinese homophonic and homographic puns, specifically designed for pun understanding and generation tasks.

[^2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_pun
