[Figure: Survey tree for "Pun Generation". Branches include Dataset (Generic Datasets—E.g. Wikipedia; BookCorpus; Derived Datasets—E.g. (Hempelmann, 2003) (Bell et al., 2011); Human Annotated—E.g. SemEval (Miller et al., 2017) CUP (Sun et al., 2022b) UNPIE (Chung et al., 2024)); Methods (conventional Methods—Manual/Automatic with examples; Classic DNNs; Language Models—Fine-Turning with Auto-encoding, Auto-regressive, Encoder-decoder, and Prompting; Visual-Language Models); Evaluation (Automatic Evaluation—Dist-1 & Dist-2, Ambiguity; Human Evaluation—Success, Funniness).]

Figure 1: The survey tree for pun generation.

based on their technological development timeline: (1) Conventional methods, which involve generating puns by manually or automatically constructing templates; (2) Classic Deep Neural networks (DNNs), leveraging architectures, such as RNNs and their variants, to learn pun patterns from data; (3) Fine-tuning of PLMs, where pre-trained models like GPT (Radford, 2018) are adapted with task-specific datasets to improve pun generation, (4) Prompting of PLMs, which utilizes carefully designed prompts to guide models in generating puns without additional training, and (5) Visual-language models, where some preliminary studies on visual pun generation. We further summarise the automatic and human evaluation metrics used to assess the quality of generated puns. Finally, we discuss our findings and propose promising research directions for future work in this field.

Overall, the paper is organised as follows: Section 2 reviews the main categories of puns and provides examples for each category. Section 3, 4 and 5 summarise the relevant datasets, methods, and evaluation metrics, as shown in figure 1. We also discuss the challenges and outline future research directions in Section 6, as well as conclude with final remarks in Section 7.

## 2 Pun Categories

This section outlines the main four types of puns: i) *Homophonic puns*, ii) *Heterographic puns*, iii) *Homographic puns* and iv) *Visual pun*.

### 2.1 Homophonic Puns

Homophonic puns rely on the dual meanings of homophones, which are words that sound alike but have different meanings (Attardo, 2009). This is illustrated in example (a):

(a) Dentists don’t like a hard day at the <u>orifice</u> (office).

which uses the “orifice” as the pivotal pun word. The term “orifice” refers to the human mouth, while its pronunciation is similar to “office”. This similarity allows it to be interpreted as a dentist working in an office, thereby creating a humorous pun effect.

### 2.2 Heterographic Puns

Heterographic puns emphasise differences in spelling with the same pronunciation to achieve their rhetorical effect, which are also classified as homophonic puns in some studies (Sun et al., 2022b; Miller et al., 2017). An example of a heterographic pun is shown as (b):

(b) Life is a puzzle, look here for the missing <u>peace</u> (piece). (Xu et al., 2024a)

The word "peace" can be interpreted as tranquility in life, while it shares the same pronunciation as "piece" which refers to a puzzle piece. Therefore, the pun can be recognized as seeking either peace in life or the missing piece of a puzzle.

### 2.3 Homographic Puns

Homographic puns exploit words spelled the same homographs but possess different meanings (Attardo, 2009), as shown in example (c):
