**Q1: Is it funny?**

| Score | Explanation |
|---|---|
| 1 | It is not funny, awkward at most. |
| 2 | It is slightly funny. |
| 3 | It is so funny I laughed. |
| 4 | It is so funny I will tell it to someone else. |
| 5 | It is so funny I will laugh if I tell it to someone else. |

Table 1: Annotation guideline for Q1: *Is it funny?*

**Q2: Is it political?**

| Score | Explanation |
|---|---|
| 1 | It is not political at all. |
| 2 | It has some political quality. |
| 3 | It is political on a general level. |
| 4 | It is political and current. |
| 5 | It is political, current and relevant in Finnish political culture. |

Table 2: Annotation guidelines for Q2: *Is it political?*

an overview of our pipeline.

### 3.1 Web Scraping

Given the definition of satire from Cambride Dictionary[^4], satire is often political. Therefore, our data should ideally have political content. As news are often about politics, or at least have content that can be interpreted in a political frame, we choose to use news as our source data. Politics is, however, not a very static field of domain and it evolves quickly to new topics. Therefore, rather than opting for a static news dataset, we built a scraper with BeautifulSoup to extract news articles published in English from the website of the Finnish broadcasting company Yle. Our scraper retrieves articles from all the different categories listed in the Yle website in English[^5], parsing their metadata. As satire is, in addition to being political on a general level, also depended on culture and region, we restrict our data to this one source, as it is the only open source site that publishes news in English in Finland.

### 3.2 Filtering

#### 3.2.1 Timestamp Filtering

For the same reason, discussed in section 3.1, we choose to scrape our data rather than use an existing dataset we want to filter our data based on the timestamps of the articles. We chose to use 30 days as the threshold for timestamps, and articles older than a month do not get processed any further.

#### 3.2.2 Sentiment Analysis

The Cambridge Dictionary[^6] describes satire as a way of criticizing something in a humorous way. However, there are certain restrictions to what kind of topics are commonly considered acceptable for satire. On the other hand, when satire is made based on sensitive topics, the tiniest details in the choice of words can define whether it is interpreted as offensive and inappropriate instead of funny.

This kind of contextual understanding is something that humans are able to consider. As we are generating satire with an LLM, however, we need to be aware of restrictions that the model has in understanding what is appropriate and what is not. Therefore, to ensure our pipeline doesn’t produce any offensive or disturbing content, we implement sentiment analysis to filter out too negative news. Here, we are, assuming that sentiment is a proxy for how "bad" a piece of news is or how sensitive or severe the topics it covers might be.

For the sentiment analysis task, we use the NLP-Town/bert-base-multilingual-uncased-sentiment model from Hugging Face. We feed the body text of the news articles to the model, and it outputs from one up to five stars, ranging from more negative to more positive.

Our motivation for sentiment analysis is not to filter out everything negative, but rather to ensure the ethics of our output. Therefore, we set the threshold of our sentiment analysis to one, so news that get a label lower than one are discarded. To obtain a more reliable sentiment score for each news article, we split the articles into batches that fit within the model’s token limit, perform sentiment analysis on each batch, and then compute the mean label scores to obtain the final article-level score.

### 3.3 Word Candidate Selection with Topic Modeling

To generate satire that makes sense in a specific cultural context, we find topics currently discussed in the news with unsupervised topic modeling to

[^4]: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english  
[^5]: https://yle.fi/news  
[^6]: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english
