with potential to surpass all competitors. *Authorea Preprints*.

Petra Bago and Nikola Bakarić. 2025. Few-shot prompting, full-scale confusion: Evaluating large language models for humor detection in croatian tweets. In *Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Slavic Natural Language Processing (Slavic NLP 2025)*, pages 9–16.

Alexander Baranov, Vladimir Kniazhevsky, and Pavel Braslavski. 2023. You told me that joke twice: A systematic investigation of transferability and robustness of humor detection models. In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 13701–13715, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Adrian Bardon. 2005. The philosophy of humor. *Comedy: A geographic and historical guide*, 2(1):462–476.

Arjun Chandrasekaran, Ashwin K Vijayakumar, Stanislaw Antol, Mohit Bansal, Dhruv Batra, C Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh. 2016. We are humor beings: Understanding and predicting visual humor. In *Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*, pages 4603–4612.

John Dang, Shivalika Singh, Daniel D’souza, Arash Ahmadian, Alejandro Salamanca, Madeline Smith, Aidan Peppin, Sungjin Hong, Manoj Govindassamy, Terrence Zhao, and 1 others. 2024. Aya expanse: Combining research breakthroughs for a new multilingual frontier. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.04261*.

Luke De Oliveira and Alfredo L Rodrigo. 2015. Humor detection in yelp reviews. *Retrieved on December*, 15:2019.

A-S Dobre and E-C Gross. 2025. Evaluating ai-generated satire against human-written content: A comparative analysis. *Bulletin of the Transilvania University of Braşov. Series VII: Social Sciences• Law*, pages 157–166.

Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Alex Vaughan, and 1 others. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783*.

Maarten Grootendorst. 2022. Bertopic: Neural topic modeling with a class-based tf-idf procedure. *Preprint*, arXiv:2203.05794.

Mika Hämäläinen and Khalid Alnajjar. 2021. Human evaluation of creative NLG systems: An interdisciplinary survey on recent papers. In *Proceedings of the First Workshop on Natural Language Generation, Evaluation, and Metrics (GEM)*, pages 84–95, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jack Hessel, Ana Marasović, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 688–714, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zachary Horvitz, Jingru Chen, Rahul Aditya, Harshvardhan Srivastava, Robert West, Zhou Yu, and Kathleen McKeown. 2024. Getting serious about humor: Crafting humor datasets with unfunny large language models. In *Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 855–869, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

EunJeong Hwang, Peter West, and Vered Shwartz. 2025. Bottlehumor: Self-informed humor explanation using the information bottleneck principle. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025*, pages 22611–22632.

Sophie Jentzsch and Kristian Kersting. 2023. ChatGPT is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models. In *Proceedings of the 13th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment, & Social Media Analysis*, pages 325–340, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Teven Le Scao, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, and William El Sayed. 2023. Mistral 7b. *Preprint*, arXiv:2310.06825.

Cristina Larkin-Galiñanes. 2017. An overview of humor theory. *The Routledge handbook of language and humor*, pages 4–16.

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. *Preprint*, arXiv:2005.11401.

Yucheng Lin, Yuhan Xia, and Yunfei Long. 2024. Augmenting emotion features in irony detection with large language modeling. In *Workshop on Chinese Lexical Semantics*, pages 196–206. Springer.

Pedro Henrique Martins, Patrick Fernandes, João Alves, Nuno M Guerreiro, Ricardo Rei, Duarte M Alves, José Pombal, Amin Farajian, Manuel Faysse, Mateusz Klimaszewski, and 1 others. 2025. Eurollm: Multilingual language models for europe. *Procedia Computer Science*, 255:53–62.

Leland McInnes, John Healy, and James Melville. 2020. Umap: Uniform manifold approximation and projection for dimension reduction. *Preprint*, arXiv:1802.03426.
