automatically extract candidate words from our web-scraped data.

First, we convert the news articles into text embeddings using the paraphrase-multilingual-MiniLM-L12-v2 model. We then apply UMAP (McInnes et al., 2020) for dimensionality reduction and use BERTopic (Grootendorst, 2022) to cluster the articles into distinct news topics. After excluding outlier documents, we extract the most salient keywords from each valid cluster. This words will be used to generate satirical dictionary definitions.

### 3.4 Retrieval

To retrieve relevant news for each input word, we employ a semantic search approach to prioritize contextual meaning over exact keyword matching. We embed the news articles using the all-MiniLM-L6-v2 model.

For each input, we calculate cosine similarity to find the most relevant news contexts. The system retrieves up to 3 news snippets per input word or phrase, filtering out any results with a similarity score below 0.1. If the search engine finds exact matches of the input, the snippets consist of the immediate contexts around those matches. If the word does not occur in any of the articles, the search engine returns the snippet from the beginning of the article. The snippets are of the size 160 character each, to preserve context most relevant for the input and they always include the timestamp, the category and the title of the article.

### 3.5 RAG

We built a custom RAG system to generate definitions for words based on the news data. The retrieved snippets are passed to meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct (Grattafiori et al., 2024) using the ollama library[^7], prompted to act as the editor of a “Satirical Dictionary.” To ensure the humor is grounded, the prompt strictly instructs the model to base its definitions solely on the provided news context rather than generic stereotypes. We enforce a cynical tone to highlight the absurdity of the specific news events and limited outputs to 50 words. The exact prompt can be found in Appendix A.

## 4 Evaluation

As the amount of existing research on computational satire is rather limited, and nonexistent when it comes to grounded generation of satire, there is

[^7]: https://ollama.com/library/llama3:latest

| Annotator Group | Humor | Politics |
|---|---:|---:|
| All | 0.070 | 0.514 |
| Finnish | 0.053 | 0.646 |
| International | 0.183 | 0.490 |

Table 3: Inter-annotator agreement of normalized z-scores measured by Krippendorf’s $\alpha$

no standard evaluation method that we could apply in this study. We choose to use human evaluation as our evaluation method, and in addition to that, we investigate whether LLMs agree with our human evaluation results using LLMs as judges. We base the choice and design of our evaluation method on practices from creative natural language generation (Hämäläinen and Alnajjar, 2021) and existing studies on computational satire evaluation (West and Horvitz, 2019; Horvitz et al., 2024; Dobre and Gross, 2025).

For the evaluation, we generate definitions for 50 words. 25 of these are drawn from the topics identified in Section 3.3. The remaining 25 consist of randomly selected English words. This setup allows us to examine whether news-related words lead to different generated definitions than unrelated random words. In addition, for each word we generate two definitions, one with RAG and one without RAG, in order to assess the impact of retrieval augmentation. The exact prompts can be found in Appendix A. For generating the definitions, we use news articles scraped on March 3, 2026.

We develop our own annotation guidelines both for human evaluation and LLM judges. Drawing on the Cambridge Dictionary definition of satire, we formulate two questions based on two dimensions: *Q1: Is it funny?*, and *Q2: Is it political?*. Annotators are then asked to rate each definition on both questions using a 1-to-5 Likert scale. For each question, we provide a verbal description of the scores from 1 to 5, as shown in Tables 1 and 2.

### 4.1 Human Evaluation

For the human evaluation, we randomly shuffle the 100 definitions to ensure a blind annotation setup, such that annotators rate each sample without knowing which model generated it or under which experimental condition it was produced.

We employ six annotators to evaluate the 100 definitions. Half of the annotators are Finnish, while the other half come from different cultural backgrounds. This design allows us to examine
