# Is GPT-4 Good Enough to Evaluate Jokes?

**Fabricio Goes<sup>1</sup>, Piotr Sawicki<sup>2</sup>, Marek Grześ<sup>2</sup>, Dan Brown<sup>3</sup>, Marco Volpe<sup>1</sup>**  
<sup>1</sup> Computing and Mathematical Sciences Department, University of Leicester, UK  
<sup>2</sup> School of Computing, University of Kent, Canterbury, UK  
<sup>3</sup> Cheriton School of Computer Science, University of Waterloo, Canada  
Fabricio.Goes@leicester.ac.uk, P.Sawicki@kent.ac.uk, M.Grzes@kent.ac.uk,  
Dan.Brown@uwaterloo.ca, Marco.Volpe@leicester.ac.uk

## Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the ability of large language models (LLMs), specifically GPT-4, to assess the funniness of jokes in comparison to human ratings. We use a dataset of jokes annotated with human ratings and explore different system descriptions in GPT-4 to imitate human judges with various types of humour. We propose a novel method to create a system description using many-shot prompting, providing numerous examples of jokes and their evaluation scores. Additionally, we examine the performance of different system descriptions when given varying amounts of instructions and examples on how to evaluate jokes. Our main contributions include a new method for creating a system description in LLMs to evaluate jokes and a comprehensive methodology to assess LLMs’ ability to evaluate jokes using rankings rather than individual scores.

## Introduction

Current Large Language Models (LLMs) (OpenAI 2023; Bubeck et al. 2023) present emergent behaviors such as translating languages, summarizing content, solving some complex problems, and generating creative artefacts. In particular, GPT-4 has the ability to do a detailed comparative evaluation of textual outputs as demonstrated in (Bubeck et al. 2023). This emergent ability has the potential to be exploited in the automatic evaluation in many domains, including creative tasks.

Typically, two primary strategies are employed to evaluate the creativity of artefacts: evaluation metrics and human judges (Jordanous 2012). The first strategy automatically quantifies novelty and value of creative artefacts through the use of metrics such as Bayesian surprise and synergy (França et al. 2016). The latter relies on humans as the ultimate judges of creativity. Although there is evidence suggesting that non-expert judges may not be capable of accurately evaluating the creativity of humans or machines (Lamb, Brown, and Clarke 2015), research has often relied on them to evaluate artefacts in the creative domain (Toplyn 2022; Sun et al. 2022; Goes et al. 2022; Jordanous 2012).

A challenging creative task for machines is the generation and evaluation of jokes and humour due to their reliance on complex concepts such as irony, sarcasm, and puns (Veale 2022). However, recent work (Sun et al. 2022; Hessel et al. 2022; Shatnawi 2022; Tian, Sheth, and Peng 2022; Mittal, Tian, and Peng 2022; Jiang et al. 2022) demonstrates that prompting or fine-tuning LLMs for humour detection is a feasible approach. Furthermore, GPT-3 and GPT-4 can be prompted to assume different roles/personas, also called system descriptions in GPT-4 chat mode (OpenAI 2023). For instance, it could be configured to produce text as a comedian if prompted with “You are a comedian with a taste for sarcasm.”. In this paper, the terms “system descriptions” and “roles” will be used interchangeably. This feature enables the configuration of different descriptions of humour types that have the potential to imitate equivalent human evaluators. On top of it, human evaluators are expensive and time consuming, which creates a bottleneck between the generation and evaluation of creative artefacts. If evaluation could also be automated keeping similar behaviour as human evaluators, that would be a significant contribution to the field of Computational Creativity and creative industries.

In this paper, we explore how GPT-4 assess the funniness of jokes in comparison to human ratings. In order to achieve this goal, we use jokes from the dataset in (Sun et al. 2022) since they have been annotated with human ratings. We prompted different types of humour in GPT-4 as system descriptions to imitate human judges and investigated which ones assessed jokes closer to humans. We propose a novel method to create a system description with many-shot prompting (providing many examples of jokes and their evaluation scores in the prompt). We also investigate how the different roles perform when provided with different amounts of instructions and examples about how to evaluate jokes.

Our main contributions are as follows:

- A novel method to create a system description in GPT-4 with many-shot prompting to evaluate jokes.
- A comprehensive methodology to assess GPT-4 ability on evaluating jokes using rankings rather than individual scores.

## Related Work

Recent publications provide databases with joke ratings (Toplyn 2022) and use crowd-sourcing for funniness ratings (Hossain et al. 2020; Sun et al. 2022). Large language models (LLMs) like GPT-3 are increasingly being
