The prompt is composed of (EXP_EXA) with the addition of: `Example of Funniness (Score of) 2.4: Drinking too much of a certain potent potable may require a leave of absinthe. Example of Funniness (Score of) 2.2: Animals that tunnel in the soil have to have an escape root. Example of Funniness (Score of) 2.4: My friend's bakery burned down last night. Now his business is toast. Example of Funniness (Score of) 2.2: What is the best store to be in during an earthquake? A stationery store.`

In order to compare GPT-4 roles’ responses with humans, we decided to compare the ranking of jokes samples, instead of directly comparing individual jokes’ scores. This avoids that scaling problems impact our experiments. This also focuses on behaviour rather than classification accuracy, which is more relevant to non-deterministic models such as GPT-4. Behaving similarly to human evaluators is more relevant than repeating jokes’ scores exactly.

We used the Spearman rank correlation coefficient to evaluate the strength and direction of the joke rankings derived from evaluations by humans and GPT-4. The Spearman coefficient ranges from -1 to 1, where 0 indicates no correlation between the rankings, closer to 1 indicates a positive relationship between them, and closer to -1 indicates a negative relationship. In our experiments, a positive relationship means that GPT-4 ranks more similar to human evaluators.

OpenAI GPT-4 was configured with the following parameters for all system descriptions: temperature(0), top P(1), frequency penalty(0) and presence penalty(0). In GPT-4, unlike in previous GPT models, setting the temperature parameter to 0 does not guarantee deterministic behaviour, but makes the responses more robust with less variability.

## Results

From the dataset of 1500 jokes, we randomly selected 10 different samples of 5 jokes for each of the 35 combinations of the 7 system descriptions and 5 levels of instructions, totalling 1750 jokes (the same joke can be sampled more than once). We also created two rankings using the average funniness score rated by humans and the score generated by GPT-4 for each system description. Those rankings were then contrasted using the Spearman correlation coefficient.

Figure 1 shows the averages of the Spearman correlation coefficients that quantify the correlation between two ranks of each system description. In this experiment, the prompts for the system description are the same for each respective version, but varying all the levels of instructions. Self-enhancing (SE), self-defeating humour (SD), the naive description (HE) and no description (NONE) present no correlation to human counterparts (interval intersects zero). As we can observe, aggressive (AG) and affiliative humours (AH) presented a very weak positive correlation with human rankings. However, the suggested description (SG) presented the most positive correlation. This indicates that creating a system description based on many examples approximates more to the human behavior on ranking funniness of jokes than the other simpler ones. Despite the correlation being weak (between 0.16 and 0.31), this result is encouraging since improvements in the system description generation could improve this correlation even further.

Figure 2 shows the averages of the Spearman coefficients for each input prompt level of instructions. In this experiment, the prompts for the level of instructions are the same, but varying all the system descriptions. We can observe that the baseline (BS) without detailed instructions presented positive correlation between GPT-4’s rankings and human ones. Only the addition of all instructions plus the extra examples (EXP_EXA_EXT) increased the average of the coefficients above the baseline (BS). The extra examples are from a rating range [2.2-2.4] that is not present in (OEXA) and (OEXP). Further analysis of the results showed that 10% of the jokes in the dataset were rated in this range which could explain the higher averages of EXP_EXA_EXT compared to other levels of instructions. Unexpectedly, the use of only examples (OEXA), explanations (OEXP) or both (EXP_EXA) has not improved, but rather reduced the average of the coefficients. A closer analysis of the data showed that only one joke scored more than 3 by human evaluators. Since (EXP_EXA) contain explanations and examples for scores of 1, 3 and 5, it turns out that most of the instructions (scores 3 and 5) are not actually useful for GPT-4 roles to replicate the behavior of human responses.

## Conclusion

In this paper, we investigate the potential of GPT-4 to evaluate the funniness of jokes compared to human judges. Our results show that current GPT-4 with a system description generated by a many-shot prompting combined with a detailed level of prompt instructions presented a weak but encouraging positive correlation with human judges in the ranking of jokes compared to other simpler system descriptions. As future work, we would like to investigate if more detailed instructions about each score would provide rankings more similar to humans. Another possible future work is to create more system descriptions based on a larger number of examples. GPT-4 is restricted to 8192 tokens, but we expect next versions to allow more tokens and consequently more jokes as examples. Finally, we would also like to test other kinds of system descriptions that could match the profile information of human evaluators.

## Acknowledgments

FG and MV are supported by the University of Leicester, in particular the Computing and Mathematical Sciences Department. The work of DB is supported by a Discovery Grant from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Council of Canada.

## Author contributions

Experimental design: FG, PS, MG, DB; Implementation: FG; Writing and Editing: FG, PS, MG, DB and MV.
