used for generating humorous texts (Wang et al. 2022; Mittal, Tian, and Peng 2022; Tian, Sheth, and Peng 2022; Shatnawi 2022). Still, for evaluation, most related work relies only on human evaluators as the final judges of humour, with the exception of (Goes et al. 2022).

The use of LLMs can become an alternative for evaluation as they are getting better at simulating human responses (Goyal, Li, and Durrett 2022; Aher, Arriaga, and Kalai 2022; Meyer et al. 2022; Jiang et al. 2022). For instance, recent emergent abilities of GPT-4 have demonstrated that it can compare, evaluate, and assign scores to different texts (Bubeck et al. 2023).

In (Goes et al. 2022), GPT-3 is used to evaluate jokes using different roles based on types of humour with a small dataset (Toplyn 2022). In this paper, we test GPT-4, instead of GPT-3, under detailed descriptions of types of humour as in (Goes et al. 2022), but also with a system description generated by many-shot prompting. GPT-4 is prompted with a large set of jokes from (Sun et al. 2022) and their respective scores. As part of our proposed methodology, we believe that evaluating how GPT-4 ranks jokes compared to humans is more robust than using individual scores as in (Goes et al. 2022).

## Experimental Setup

The dataset in (Sun et al. 2022) is originally extracted from the SemEval 2017 Task 7 (Hossain et al. 2020). They recruited human evaluators and augmented the dataset of jokes with annotations for understandability, offensiveness, intended joke and funniness. The human evaluators had to correctly label 80% of 20 samples that were manually annotated to be qualified as a reliable evaluator. In our paper, we extracted 1500 jokes from the dataset (Sun et al. 2022) and merged them with the text of the jokes from the original dataset (Hossain et al. 2020). We use 7 different system descriptions to simulate human responses in GPT-4. We use GPT-4 since it is the most advanced LLM available. We use as baselines a version with no system description (NONE) and a naive system description (HE). Then we used all the four types of humour from (Martin et al. 2003) to cover all types of humour: affiliative (AH), self-enhancing (SE), aggressive (AG) and self-defeating (SD). Finally, a suggested (SG) system description created using many-shot prompting (multiple examples) is proposed. This version has a cheaper cost than many-shot prompting, since it eliminates the need to include a large number of examples (tokens) for every inference. At the same time, it can potentially have a similar accuracy as a many-shot prompting approach in simulating human ratings. They are described as follows:

- No description (NONE) - The system description is empty.

- Affiliative humour (AH) - This humour type’s description is: `You are a person with affiliative humour who tends to say funny things, to tell jokes, and to engage in spontaneous witty banter to amuse others, to facilitate relationships, and to reduce interpersonal tensions.`

- Self-enhancing humour (SE) - This humour type’s description is: `You are a person with self-enhancing humour which involves a generally humorous outlook on life, a tendency to be frequently amused by the incongruities of life, and to maintain a humorous perspective even in the face of stress or adversity.`

- Aggressive humour (AG) - This humour type’s description is: `You are a person with an aggressive humour which relates to the use of sarcasm, teasing, ridicule, derision, put-down, or disparagement humor. It also includes the use of humour to manipulate others by means of an implied threat of ridicule.`

- Self-defeating humour (SD) - This humour type’s description is: `You are a person with self-defeating humour which involves excessively self-disparaging humour, attempts to amuse others by doing or saying funny things at one’s own expense as a means of ingratiating oneself or gaining approval, allowing oneself to be the butt of others’ humour, and laughing along with others when being ridiculed or disparaged.`

- Humour expert (HE) - This naive system description is: `You are a humour expert.`

- Suggested description (SG) - This system description is generated by a many-shot prompt composed of 200 jokes and respective average scores randomly sampled from the dataset (they are omitted here) in addition to the following instructions: `Given the jokes and scores above, what would be a system description that would help matching those scores given a joke. The system description is in the form: You are ....` This prompt is executed just once outputting the following system description: `You are a humour evaluation system with a preference for wordplay, puns, and light-hearted jokes. You tend to appreciate jokes with clever twists or plays on words, and you are not particularly fond of jokes involving offensive or inappropriate content. Your sense of humour leans more towards the subtle and witty side, rather than slapstick or crude humour.` This unique generated system description is used for all experiments.

We also investigated how the amount and type of instructions for the evaluation would affect GPT-4 evaluation. We created 5 prompt instructions with different levels of instructions using the exact guidelines in the appendix of (Sun et al. 2022):

- Baseline (BS) - This zero-shot prompt (no examples) does not provide examples or explanations about how
