[Figure: Box plot of Average Spearman Coefficients by System Descriptions. X-axis labels: NONE, AH, SE, AG, SD, HE, SG. Y-axis label: Average Spearman Coefficients. Red dashed horizontal line at 0.]

Figure 1: Average Spearman coefficient per system description.

[Figure: Box plot of Average Spearman Coefficients by Level of instructions. X-axis labels: BS, O_EXA, O_EXP, EXP_EXA, EXP_EXA_EXT. Y-axis label: Average Spearman Coefficients. Red dashed horizontal line at 0.]

Figure 2: Average Spearman coefficient per level of prompt instructions.

to score the scale of funniness. The prompt is: `On the scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is very not funny and 5 means very funny, rate the following jokes. + sample_jokes + Rank (sort) from least to most funny order considering the rating in the following format of a list in Python with each entry in this specific form (original index,joke,rating).`

- Only examples (OEXA) - This few-shot prompt (few examples) provides 3 examples about how to score the scale of funniness from (Sun et al. 2022) instructions. The prompt is composed of (BS) with the addition of: `Example of Funniness (Score of) 1 (not funny): These are my parents, said Einstein relatively. Example of Funniness (Score of) 3 (average funniness): When they told him that his drum couldn’t be fixed, it didn’t resonate very well. Example of Funniness (Score of) 5 (very funny): Yesterday I accidentally swallowed some food coloring. The doctor says I’m OK, but I feel like I’ve dyed a little inside.`

- Only explanations (OEXP) - This prompt provides explanations on how to score the scale of funniness for 3 scores, from (Sun et al. 2022) appendix A.4. The prompt is composed of (BS) with the addition of: `Score of 1: A very not funny joke consists of a joke that is not funny at all, or tries to be funny but does not achieve the intended effect. Score of 3: An average joke consists of a joke that is average and may elicit some chuckles (or groans) from you or others. Score of 5: A very funny joke consists of a good joke that you find humorous and potentially would want to share/tell to others.`

- Examples and explanations (EXP_EXA) - This prompt provides instructions on how to score the scale of funniness using both examples and explanations. The prompt is composed of (OEXP) and (OEXA).

- Examples and explanations with extra examples (EXP_EXA_EXT) - This prompt provides instructions on how to score using examples and explanations with also extra examples from Additional Calibrating Examples from the appendix of (Sun et al. 2022).
