In this paper, we investigate whether existing VL Models are able to decipher satire in images. To do so, we propose 3 benchmarking tasks - (1) *Satirical Image Detection* - Given an image, classify the image as being satirical or not (2) *Satirical Image Understanding* - Given a satirical image, describing in natural language why the image is satirical (3) *Satirical Image Completion* - Given a part of the image, correctly select the remaining part of the image from 2 options. These tasks go beyond image recognition and language understanding, and are challenging, as understanding satire usually involves understanding the punchline corresponding to a sudden twist or a funny quip in a given situation (Ramachandran, 1998). For example, in Fig. 1, the model needs to first comprehend the text "wish you were here", followed by understanding that the text was sent by a person sitting in the toilet from the image on the right, and then finally grasp the irony of the situation.

To evaluate the tasks, we collected a high-quality multimodal dataset ***YesBut*** consisting of 1,084 satirical and 1,463 non-satirical images, where each image contains 2 sub-images with the same/different artistic styles. In each *satirical image*, the left sub-image describes a scenario, and the right sub-image presents another scenario which either contradicts or pokes fun at the first scenario, creating an element of satire. Additionally, each such satirical sample is annotated to get the description of individual images inside the sample, as well as the overall description containing the punchline that conveys the satire.

We perform detailed evaluation on the satirical image detection, understanding, and completion tasks using recent VL models in zero-shot and zero-shot Chain-of-Thought (CoT) (Kojima et al., 2022) settings (as we want to observe how well the models can decipher satire without the support of additional training/in-context examples). We observe that the task of satirical image detection is especially difficult. Also, even though Gemini performs the best in Satirical Image Understanding and Completion tasks, there is a significant scope for improvement in SOTA VL Models in understanding and comprehending satire in images in zero-shot scenarios. Also, for further research, we release an additional set of 119 diverse, real, satirical photographs. We infer that SOTA VL Models fail to perform well even on real photographs (***see Section A in Appendix*** for more details).

## 2 Background

### 2.1 Satirical and Humor Datasets

Previous works on satire and humor in NLP and Computer Vision mostly revolve around detecting satire in text (Rogoz et al., 2021) and multimodal scenarios (Li et al., 2020; Ionescu and Chifu, 2021), detecting humor in multimodal scenarios (Hasan et al., 2019; Castro et al., 2019), meme captioning (Hwang and Shwartz, 2023), etc. However, no such work performs a comprehensive and simultaneous evaluation of satire and humor detection, understanding, and comprehension capabilities of VL Models in Multimodal Scenarios.

### 2.2 Other Image Datasets

The WHOOPS benchmark, introduced by Bitton-Guetta et al. (2023), comprises unconventional images challenging commonsense expectations, both human-created and machine-generated, accompanied by corresponding textual descriptions. Specifically designed for tasks such as image captioning, image-text matching, visual question answering, and explanation generation, it provides a unique dataset for evaluating model performance in these domains. In contrast, our work performs a holistic evaluation of different SOTA VL Models on their ability to detect, understand, and comprehend satire in images.

## 3 Our Annotation Pipeline

The entire data collection and annotation pipeline is shown in Fig. 2. We curated a collection of annotated satirical and non-satirical images in this section in 4 stages.

### 3.1 *Stage 1*: Collecting Satirical Images from Social Media

We manually downloaded images from the posts in ‘X’ (erstwhile known as Twitter) handle @_yesbut_ (with proper consent). We manually filtered 283 images that are satirical, and annotated them in the next stage. Each image contains two sub-images (which are colorized sketches), one on the left showing a normal scenario, while one on the right is ironical/pokes fun at the left sub-image.

### 3.2 *Stage 2*: Annotation of satirical images

Textual descriptions and certain categorical features of *satirical images* were annotated using 5 annotators, all of whom met the qualification criteria of being undergraduate sophomore students
