[Figure: annotation pipeline diagram for YesBut. Dashed boxes labeled “Stage 1: Collecting Satirical Images from Social Media,” “Stage 2: Annotation of satirical Images,” “Stage 3: Generating 2D stick images using DALL-E 3 using the annotated descriptions,” and “Stage 4: Generating 3D stick images using DALL-E 3 using the annotated descriptions.” Visible labels include “283 images downloaded from the ‘X’ handle @_yesbut_,” “Annotation,” “Using DALL-E 3 to generate in 2-D Stick Figure Style,” “Using DALL-E 3 to generate in 3-D Stick Figure Style,” and “Manual Labelling (Satirical/Non-Satirical).” Example images are headed “YES,” and “BUT,” with green check marks and red crosses indicating labels.]

Figure 2: Our annotation Pipeline for **YesBut** in 4 Stages - (1) Collecting Satirical Images from Social Media (2) Human Annotation of satirical images (3) Generating 2D stick images using DALL-E 3 and annotated descriptions (4) Generating 3D stick images using DALL-E 3 and annotated descriptions

or above, enrolled in English-medium colleges. Specifically, we collected the following features (these were given as annotator instructions) for every image - (1) Textual Description of the Left Sub-Image (2) Textual Description of the Right Sub-Image (3) Overall Textual Description which contains the punchline (4) A binary feature on whether the Left sub-Image contains any text (5) A binary feature on whether the Right sub-Image contains any text (6) A binary feature on whether the sub-images can be created by dividing a larger image using a vertical line as a separator (7) A categorical feature on how difficult the annotation was. This can have 3 possible values - ‘EASY’ when the annotator does not need any additional help from the internet, ‘MEDIUM’ when the annotator needs additional help from the internet to understand the overall description, and ‘HARD’ when additional help from the internet is needed to write all the 3 aforementioned textual descriptions.

Fig. 3 shows distribution of the 283 images based on different aspects of image content and annotated descriptions. We can see that - (1) from Fig. 3a, more than half of the images have no text, which would make it difficult for the VL Models to understand those images due to absence of a text modality; (2) from Fig. 3b, more than 94% of the images do not have connected sub-images, requiring the VL Models to understand the connection between the objects in the two sub-images; (3) from
