prompt used for all images is mentioned **_in Section E.2 of Appendix._**

### 5.3 Evaluation Setup

*Satirical Image Detection:* We use Zero-Shot and Zero-Shot Chain-of-Thought (CoT) (Kojima et al., 2022) setups for inference, and metrics used for binary classification such as Accuracy and F1-Score for evaluation.

*Satirical Image Understanding:* We use Zero-Shot setup for inference, and standard metrics for automatic evaluation of text generation-based tasks - lexical overlap metrics such as BLEU (Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE-L (Lin, 2004), and METEOR (Banerjee and Lavie, 2005), and semantic similarity metrics such as BERTScore (Zhang* et al., 2020) to evaluate the image understanding capabilities of the images and corresponding sub-images (we also experiment with an image-based evaluation metric Polos (Wada et al., 2024), whose results are shown in **_Section E.4 of the Appendix_**). Additionally, we randomly sample 30 images (10 images from each obtained in Stage 2, Stage 3, Stage 4) along with their model-generated and human-written overall image descriptions. Each image description is human-evaluated based on the following (binary) criteria (adopted from (Hwang and Shwartz, 2023) and slightly changed[^4] to better suit evaluation on *YesBut*) - (1) **Correctness:** Is the image description correctly able to convey the satire the image wanted to convey? (2) **Appropriate Length:** Is the image description length appropriate for conveying the meaning (i.e. it is not too verbose)? (3) **Visual Completeness:** Does the image description describe all the important elements in the image? (4) **Faithfulness:** Are all the elements of the image description supported by either the visual or text elements (i.e. there are no made-up elements)? - The annotation is carried out by 3 students in the lab[^5], and the majority vote is taken for each image.

*Satirical Image Completion:* We use Zero-Shot and Zero-Shot CoT setups for inference. and accuracy as the evaluation metric.

Note that we do not use In-Context Learning Setting for inference because this would make the tasks less challenging for the models. Also, we want to analyze how well VL models can comprehend satire on their own *without any support from other exemplars.*

### 5.4 Results

*Satirical Image Detection:* Table 3 shows the results of satirical image detection capability of VL Models on the **_YesBut_** Dataset. We can infer that - (1) Kosmos-2 in zero-shot CoT and zero-shot settings give the best test accuracy and F1 Score respectively due to its superior visual grounding capabilities (2) Improvement in test accuracy and F1 Score due to CoT is seen only in 2/5 and 1/5 models respectively, suggesting that SOTA VL Models are unable to properly reason/rationalize whether a given image has an element of satire in it (3) Both test accuracy and F1 Score do not cross 60% for any SOTA VL Model, suggesting that there is a significant scope for improvement when it comes to detecting satire/humor in a given image.

*Satirical Image Understanding:* Fig. 5 shows the average value of the 4 automated metrics (discussed in Sec. 5.3) to evaluate satirical image understanding capability of VL Models at different stages of annotation of **_YesBut_** (see Table 6 in **_Section E.4 of Appendix_** to get individual values of the evaluation metrics, along with performance variation w.r.t annotation difficulty and presence of text in images). We observe that - (1) There is a reduction in the overall understanding capability (average metric corresponding to ‘WHYFUNNY PROMPT’) of the majority of models in Stages 3 and 4 compared to Stage 2, as images in Stages 3 and 4 have different artistic styles in the same image, unlike Stage 2 (2) Kosmos-2 almost always performs better than other open-source models LLaVA and MiniGPT4, as Kosmos-2 has multimodal grounding and referring capabilities, which LLaVA and MiniGPT4 do not have (3) 4 out of 5 models do not understand the entire image better than sub-images

|  | TEST ACC. | F1 SCORE |
|---|---:|---:|
| LLaVA (0-shot) | 53.67 | 48.64 |
| LLaVA (0-shot, CoT) | 52.22 | 46.87 |
| Kosmos-2 (0-shot) | 42.56 | 59.71 |
| Kosmos-2 (0-shot, CoT) | 56.97 | 20.35 |
| MiniGPT4 (0-shot) | 48.29 | 49.33 |
| MiniGPT4 (0-shot, CoT) | 48.88 | 50.61 |
| GPT4 (0-shot) | 55.44 | 55.13 |
| GPT4 (0-shot, CoT) | 48.29 | 42.32 |
| Gemini (0-shot) | 50.82 | 48.29 |
| Gemini (0-shot, CoT) | 46.36 | 38.93 |

Table 3: Evaluation of different VL models on the Satirical Image Detection task

[^4]: We do not use ‘Textual Completeness’ from Hwang and Shwartz (2023), as many images in *YesBut* do not contain text

[^5]: The annotators who annotated *YesBut* were not a part of the human evaluation
