[Figure: Four pie charts labeled (a) “Number of sub-images containing text” with categories Two 26.5%, One 20.5%, Zero 53.0%; (b) “Are sub-images connected?” with CONNECTED 5.3% and NOT 94.7%; (c) “Difficulty in Understanding” with HARD 2.5%, MEDIUM 11.0%, EASY 86.6%; (d) “Types of Satire” with Social Satire 83.7%, Parody 1.4%, Horatian Satire 12.4%, Manners’ Satire 2.5%. Small example image pairs are labeled “YES,” and “BUT”.]

Figure 3: Distribution of the original 283 satirical images downloaded from Social Media based on different aspects of image content and annotated descriptions

sentations obtained by applying UMAP (McInnes et al., 2018) on the pre-trained CLIP (Radford et al., 2021) (MIT License) image representations in Fig. 4. The image samples are plotted in different colors based on their artistic style. The original 283 images are not very diverse. However, the generated images of the 2D and 3D stick figure styles are comparatively much more diverse and are semantically distant from the original images, even though they have the same sub-image descriptions. Hence, all the satirical images are highly diverse and cover various scenarios of societal satire.

[Figure: Scatter plot titled “2D UMAP of Embeddings” with x-axis “UMAP 1” and y-axis “UMAP 2”. Legend entries: “Original Sketches”, “2-D Black silhouettes generated by Dalle-3”, and “3-D Black silhouettes generated by Dalle-3”.]

Figure 4: 2D UMAP Representations of CLIP Image representations of *YesBut* sub-images

## 5 Experimental Setup

We report the performance of various SOTA VL Models (described in Sec. 5.1) for performance evaluation on the tasks (described in Sec. 5.2) devised for the *YesBut* Dataset. The evaluation setup and experimental results are described in Sec. 5.3 and 5.4, respectively.

### 5.1 Models

**Gemini.** Gemini (Team, 2023) is a closed-source family of Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) from Google. The Gemini project comprises Ultra, Pro, and Nano variants, designed to excel in image and text comprehension. These models cater to diverse applications, from intricate reasoning tasks to memory-constrained on-device scenarios. Notably,
