# *YesBut*: A High-Quality Annotated Multimodal Dataset for evaluating Satire Comprehension capability of Vision-Language Models

**Abhilash Nandy♠**  **Yash Agarwal♠**  **Ashish Patwa♠**  **Millon Madhur Das♣**  
**Aman Bansal♣**  **Ankit Raj♢**  **Pawan Goyal♠**  **Niloy Ganguly♠**  
`nandyabhilash@kgpian.iitkgp.ac.in`  
♠Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur ♣University of Massachusetts Amherst  
♢ Haldia Institute of Technology

## Abstract

Understanding satire and humor is a challenging task for even current Vision-Language models. In this paper, we propose the challenging tasks of *Satirical Image Detection* (detecting whether an image is satirical), *Understanding* (generating the reason behind the image being satirical), and *Completion* (given one half of the image, selecting the other half from 2 given options, such that the complete image is satirical) and release a high-quality dataset *YesBut*, consisting of 2547 images, 1084 satirical and 1463 non-satirical, containing different artistic styles, to evaluate those tasks. Each satirical image in the dataset depicts a normal scenario, along with a conflicting scenario which is funny or ironic. Despite the success of current Vision-Language Models on multimodal tasks such as Visual QA and Image Captioning, our benchmarking experiments show that such models perform poorly on the proposed tasks on the *YesBut* Dataset in Zero-Shot Settings w.r.t both automated as well as human evaluation. Additionally, we release a dataset of 119 real, satirical photographs for further research[^1].

# 1 Introduction

Satire is a form of humor that uses irony or exaggeration to criticize or mock people, politics, or society. It serves as a powerful tool to highlight issues, provoke thought, and often encourages a critical perspective on the subject matter. Satirical images posted on social media often consist of conflicting scenarios to convey irony and humor. Understanding such conflicting scenarios requires understanding interaction among entities and text (if any) within the image, along with commonsense knowledge and reasoning capabilities. Fig. 1 shows an example image conveying satire. The irony in the image is that the person is messaging

[Figure: A satirical social media-style image labeled “YES,” and “BUT”. A blue text message bubble reads “wish you were here” with a heart. The “BUT” side shows a person using a phone while sitting on a toilet behind a partially open stall door.]

Figure 1: Satire conveyed through a social media image

someone a very heartfelt message on the mobile, while sitting on a toilet seat!

People convey humor on the internet and social media using images, GIFs, and videos. Previous studies have shown that memes (Buchel, 2012) and TV show Clips (Attardo et al., 2003) are prevalent means for expressing such humor. There have also been attempts at detecting (Hasan et al., 2019; Castro et al., 2019; Tanaka et al., 2022) and describing (Hwang and Shwartz, 2023) multimodal satire and humor. However, very few works have *simultaneously studied the detection, understanding, and comprehension of satirical situations in society in the multimodal setting.*

There has been a rise in the development of Vision-Language (VL) models (Liu et al., 2023; Huang et al., 2023; Peng et al., 2023; Zhu et al., 2023; OpenAI, 2023; Team, 2023). Such models have shown remarkable State-Of-The-Art (SOTA) performance on several downstream tasks such as Visual Question Answering and Image Captioning. Such models are pre-trained in a manner that images and text have shared embedding space, and that, images and their corresponding text descriptions have similar representations in that embedding space (Radford et al., 2021; Zhai et al., 2023).

[^1]: The dataset and code are available at https://github.com/abhilnandy2/yesbut_dataset
