Fig. 3c, a significant 13.5% of the (MEDIUM and HARD) images required annotators to refer to the internet to annotate the images, which makes the dataset challenging; (4) from Fig. 3d, the overall descriptions of the images containing the punchline were classified into 4 different types of satire using ChatGPT (OpenAI, 2021). Most of the images show Social Satire (it focuses on cultural trends, social conventions, and the absurdities of everyday life) and Horatian Satire (it aims to amuse rather than enrage, often using wit, irony, exaggeration to poke fun at societal norms and human folly).

### 3.3 Stage 3: Generating 2D stick images using DALL-E 3 on the annotated descriptions

To increase the size and the diversity of the dataset, we use the DALL-E 3 (Betker et al., 2023) image generation model to generate synthetic sub-images using the annotated left and right sub-image descriptions (obtained in Stage 2). We use the following prompt - "Draw using stick figures (black silhouette against a white background) - <SUB-IMAGE DESCRIPTION>". Given the original sub-images, 3 new combinations of sub-images are obtained ([original left sub-image, generated right 2D stick sub-image], [generated left 2D stick sub-image, original right sub-image], [generated left 2D stick sub-image, generated right 2D stick sub-image]). We manually label each new combined image as satirical or non-satirical (details of this manual labelling is given in ***Section C.3 of Appendix***). At the end of the image generation followed by manual labelling, we end up adding 302 satirical and 547 non-satirical images. Each satirical image generated is assigned the same textual descriptions as the original image.

### 3.4 Stage 4: Generating 3D stick images using DALL-E 3 on the annotated descriptions

Similar to Stage 3, we further increase the size and diversity using DALLE-3. We use the following prompt - "Draw using 3D black silhouettes against a white background - <SUB-IMAGE DESCRIPTION>". Given the original sub-images and the sub-images generated in Stage 3, 5 new combinations of sub-images are obtained ([original left sub-image, generated right 3D stick sub-image], [generated left 3D stick sub-image, original right sub-image], [generated left 2D stick sub-image, generated right 3D stick sub-image], [generated left 3D stick sub-image, generated right 2D stick sub-image], [generated left 3D stick sub-image, generated right 3D stick sub-image]). We manually label each new combined image as satirical or non-satirical. At the end of the image generation followed by manual labelling, we end up adding 499 satirical and 916 non-satirical images. Each satirical image generated is assigned the same textual descriptions as the original image.

## 4 The *YesBut* Dataset

The *YesBut* dataset has a total of 2,547 images, 1,084 of which are satirical, the rest 1,463 images being non-satirical. These images spread across 3 diverse artistic styles - colorized sketch, 2D stick figure, 3D stick figure.

| Dataset | Absence of text in image | Presence of sub-images | Presence of multiple artistic styles | Tasks relevant to multimodal humor comprehension |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---|
| MemeCap | 8.05% | 40.61% | 15.56% | Meme Captioning |
| MET-Meme | 1.43% | 17.92% | 9.52% | Meme Understanding,<br>Sentiment Analysis |
| *YesBut* | **53%**<sup>2</sup> | **100%** | **88.89%** | Satirical Image<br>Detection,<br>Understanding,<br>Completion |

Table 1: Statistics of the presence/absence of text, sub-images, and multiple image styles and tasks evaluated in prior datasets vs. *YesBut*.

Table 1 compares *YesBut* with multimodal satirical and humor datasets from prior art. We can see that *YesBut* has a much larger fraction of images that (1) do not have text, (2) have sub-images, (3) have multiple artistic styles within the image, in comparisons to MemeCap (Hwang and Shwartz, 2023) and MET-Meme (Xu et al., 2022) datasets. Lack of text and presence of multiple artistic styles across sub-images makes it challenging for the VL Models to comprehend satire in the images present in *YesBut*. Additionally, the tasks in *YesBut* ensure a more holistic evaluation of satire and humor compared to MemeCap and MET-Meme.

The satirical images cover several aspects of societal satire. To analyze this, we use topic modeling on the left and right sub-image descriptions using BERTopic (Grootendorst, 2022). We get 7 topics (each topic being an unordered set of representative words), which are further elaborated using Chat-GPT to get intuitive descriptions for each topic (refer to ***Section D of Appendix***).

We further visualize the diversity of these sub-images by plotting the compressed 2D image repre-

<sup>2</sup>ignoring ‘YES’, ‘BUT’ Markers at the top of each image, as these markers are not related to the content of the image (see Fig. 1)
