[Figure: Four grouped bar charts comparing model average scores. Panels labeled “Stage 2”, “Stage 3”, “Stage 4”, and “All Images”. Legend: blue = “LEFT IMAGE DESCRIPTION”, green = “RIGHT IMAGE DESCRIPTION”, red = “WHYFUNNY PROMPT”. X-axis labeled “Models” with LLaVA, Kosmos-2, MiniGPT4, GPT4, Gemini. Y-axis labeled “Average Score”.]

Figure 5: Evaluation of Satirical Image Understanding Capability using multiple VL models at different stages (Stages 2, 3, 4) of annotation of ***YesBut***, as well as, for all ***YesBut*** images

within the image across the entire ***YesBut*** Dataset. Gemini, Kosmos-2 encounter a huge drop in overall reasoning compared to sub-image reasoning, despite showing remarkable cross-modal reasoning and visual grounding capability respectively (4) MiniGPT4 gives the worst performance among all models due to restricted leverage of visual modality compared to textual modality, as stated in Hwang and Shwartz (2023). (5) All average metric values (normalized between 0 and 1) are below 0.4, which shows that there is a lot of scope for improvement in satire understanding capability of SOTA VL Models.

|  | TEST ACC. |
|---|---:|
| LLaVA (0-shot) | 51.33 |
| LLaVA (0-shot, CoT) | 56.55 |
| Kosmos-2 (0-shot) | 54.67 |
| Kosmos-2 (0-shot, CoT) | 53.33 |
| MiniGPT4 (0-shot) | 40 |
| MiniGPT4 (0-shot, CoT) | 60.67 |
| GPT4 (0-shot) | 58.67 |
| GPT4 (0-shot, CoT) | 57.33 |
| Gemini (0-shot) | 61.11 |
| Gemini (0-shot, CoT) | 61.81 |

Table 4: Evaluation of different VL models on the Satirical Image Completion task

***Figure 14 in Section E.4 of Appendix*** compares the overall image descriptions generated by 5 SOTA Models with ones written by human annotators based on human evaluation (*see Table 10 in Section E.4 of Appendix* for an example). We can see that Gemini and GPT4 perform satisfactorily among the 5 models. However, performance of the (aspect-wise) best model is 40, 43.33, 33.33, 36.66 points less compared to human-level performance on Correctness, Appropriate Length, Visual Completeness, and Faithfulness respectively.

*Satirical Image Completion:* Table 4 shows results of the satirical image completion task on ***YesBut***. We observe that - (1) CoT improves results in 3/5 models, as reasoning is needed to understand the relation between sub-images better (2) Among open-source models, improvement due to CoT is the highest for MiniGPT4, which is the largest open-source model in our study (see Table 2). This is consistent with the observation of Zero-Shot CoT working better for larger models (Kojima et al., 2022) (3) Gemini performs best in both zero-shot and zero-shot CoT settings among all the models.

## 6 Summary and Conclusion

We present ***YesBut***, a high-quality annotated multimodal dataset for Satire Comprehension Evaluation. Our work is one of the first to systematically benchmark multimodal Satire Comprehension ability of SOTA VL Models by proposing 3 non-trivial tasks of Satire Detection, Understanding, and Completion. We observe that SOTA VL Models struggle in those tasks, as ***YesBut***, unlike other benchmarks, contains images with sub-images having different artistic styles and no text in most cases, making ***YesBut*** a challenging multimodal dataset for satire detection and comprehension.
