[Figure: Instagram-style post labeled “YES, BUT” dated “29 April 2022”, showing two side-by-side photographs labeled “YES,” and “BUT”; both show a fire extinguisher near a door/window, with the “BUT” image showing metal bars obstructing access.]

Figure 6: Example of a real photograph following the ‘Yes, But’ Theme

# A Introduction

**Dataset of real, satirical images:** We collected a dataset of 119 images containing irony, satire from instagram posts by different users, who resort to using “Yes, But” theme over real photos (e.g. see Figure 6). We perform following 2 tasks on these images - (1) Satirical Image Detection, where we report detection accuracy, as all images have ground truth of “Satirical” (2) Satirical Image Understanding, where we use the WHYFUNNY text prompt and the image as input to the VL Models. The output is evaluated using human evaluation, where the annotator needs to answer whether model-generated text correctly describes satire in the image, and the corresponding accuracy for each VL Model is reported. The results are shown in Table 5. We can infer that 3 out of 5 models give less than satisfactory performance on Detection, and all models give an accuracy of less than 50% on Image Understanding. Hence, even on real photographs, SOTA VL Models fail to perform well.

| Model | Detection | Understanding |
|---|---:|---:|
| LLaVA | 18.48 | 22.69 |
| Kosmos-2 | 66.39 | 10.92 |
| MiniGPT4 | 52.94 | 10.92 |
| GPT4 | 93.27 | 46.22 |
| Gemini | 80.67 | 19.33 |

Table 5: Performance of different SOTA VL Models on Satirical Detection and Understanding Tasks on real photographs

# B Background

## B.1 Satirical and Humor Datasets

## B.2 Other Image Datasets

# C Our Annotation Pipeline

## C.1 _Stage 1:_ Collecting Satirical Images from Social Media

## C.2 _Stage 2:_ Annotation of Satirical Images

## C.3 _Stage 3:_ Generating 2D stick images using DALL-E 3 on the annotated descriptions

**Details of the manual labelling:** The manual labelling of whether an image with one or more generated sub-images is satirical or not is carried out by a graduate student in our lab. The annotator was given 10 satirical and 10 non-satirical images prior to the manual labelling to provide assistance for the labelling.

## C.4 _Stage 4:_ Generating 3D stick images using DALL-E 3 on the annotated descriptions

# D The _YesBut_ Dataset

**Topics obtained after topic-modelling on the left and right sub-image descriptions of satirical images in _YesBut_, along with topic descriptions from ChatGPT -**

- _gate_shorts_step_allowed_person:_ Likely related to airport security procedures or access control systems, involving individuals wearing shorts being allowed to proceed through a gate or checkpoint.

- _phone_screen_mobile_smartphone_person:_ Refers to activities or interactions involving individuals using their smartphones, possibly related to mobile technology, communication, or digital engagement.

- _woman_image_shows_saying_text:_ Implies content featuring women in images, possibly conveying messages or text, suggesting
