that AI-generated humor can enhance user engagement and trust (Niculescu et al., 2013), we hypothesized (H4) that humor senders assisted by GPT-4o would produce better humor compared to humans working without AI support, and that humor receivers would evaluate AI-assisted humorous responses more favorably than responses generated without AI support. This study was preregistered, see https://aspredicted.org/y237-33mv.pdf.

### 6.1. Method

*Participants.* 200 participants (69 men, 127 women, 4 other genders, $M_{age} = 40.28$ years, $SD_{age} = 11.84$, 140 White, 29 Black or African American, 16 Asian, 11 Hispanic or Latino, 1 Native American or Indigenous, 3 Other) were recruited in Part 1 to generate humorous responses to a given scenario. A separate sample of 350 participants (171 men, 176 women, 3 other genders, $M_{age} = 40.54$ years, $SD_{age} = 13.62$, 202 White, 105 Black or African American, 20 Asian, 18 Hispanic or Latino, 1 Native American or Indigenous, 4 Other) was recruited in Part 2 to evaluate the generated responses from the perspective of the recipient.

*Procedures.* In Part 1, we used a one-way (condition: AI vs. control) design. In Part 2, we used a 2 (rater type: human vs. GPT-4o; between-participants) × 3 (response type: GPT-4o-generated, GPT-4o-assisted, human-generated; within-participants) mixed design.

Part 1: 200 participants were asked to imagine themselves in a workplace scenario involving an interpersonal conflict (see supplementary material). The scenario described a tense argument with a colleague about workload distribution, and participants were encouraged to use humor to defuse the tension. Participants were then asked to write down the humorous responses they would deliver to the colleague. Subsequently, participants were randomly assigned to one of two conditions: the AI condition ($N = 107$) or the control condition ($N = 93$).

In the AI condition, participants were presented with one randomly selected response from a pool of 20 GPT-4o-generated humorous responses to the same workplace scenario. They were instructed to choose one of three options for their final response: (1) integrate their original response with the AI suggestion to create a modified version, (2) replace their original response with the AI-generated response, or (3) keep their original response without any modifications. In the control condition, participants were not shown any AI-generated response and submitted their original response as their final response without external assistance. After submitting their final response, all participants (i.e., humor senders) evaluated their submitted response in terms of funniness, likability, effectiveness, and relief (1 = *not at all*, 7 = *extremely*; see supplementary material).

Part 2: From the humor recipients’ perspective, 350 human participants were recruited to evaluate 60 randomly selected responses from Part 1, including 20 responses by human participants with AI assistance, 20 generated solely by human participants, and 20 generated by AI. Each response was evaluated by 50 humans and 50 GPT-4o-simulated evaluators. Human participants and GPT-4o were presented with the same conflict scenario as in Part 1 and assessed the responses from the recipient’s perspective, by evaluating funniness, likability, effectiveness, and relief (see supplementary material).

### 6.2. Results

Part 1: We conducted one-way ANOVAs to examine the effect of condition (AI vs. control) on participants’ (humor producers’) ratings of funniness, likability, effectiveness, and relief, respectively. The condition effect was significant for each of the dependent measures, $F$s $(1, 198) > 8.79$, $p$s ≤ .003, $\eta_p^2$s > .04. In particular, participants in the AI condition rated their humor response to be funnier ($M = 4.28$, $se = .14$), liked it more ($M = 4.83$, $se = .16$), rated it as more effective ($M = 4.75$, $se = .15$), and felt more relieved ($M = 4.67$, $se = .15$), compared to participants in the control condition ($M_{funniness} = 3.54$, $se = .15$; $M_{likability} = 4.02$, $se = .17$; $M_{effectiveness} = 4.01$, $se = .16$; $M_{relief} = 4.02$, $se = .16$).

Among participants in the AI condition, those who adopted the AI response ($n = 46$) reported the highest level of funniness ($M = 4.74$, $se = .22$), likability ($M = 5.50$, $se = .21$), effectiveness ($M = 5.13$, $se = .22$) and relief ($M = 5.22$, $se = .20$), whereas those who kept their original response (i.e., ignoring AI responses; $n = 28$) reported the lowest ratings on each of the four measures ($M_{funniness} = 3.64$, $se = .29$; $M_{likability} = 4.04$, $se = .27$; $M_{effectiveness} = 4.14$, $se = .28$; $M_{relief} = 3.46$, $se = .25$), with those who modified their response with AI suggestion ($n = 33$) sitting in between ($M_{funniness} = 4.18$, $se = .26$; $M_{likability} = 4.58$, $se = .24$; $M_{effectiveness} = 4.73$, $se = .26$; $M_{relief} = 4.94$, $se = .23$) (see Fig. 4).

Part 2: We then analyzed the ratings provided by the humor recipients and GPT-4o. We ran a 2 (rater type: human vs. GPT-4o; between-participants) × 3 (response type: AI, AI-assisted, human; within-participants) mixed-design ANOVA on ratings of funniness, likability, effectiveness, and relief, respectively. For each of these analyses the main effect of rater type was significant, $F$s $(1, 98) > 101.26$, $p$s < .001, $\eta_p^2$s > .35, indicating that in general, GPT-4o gave higher ratings than human recipients (see Fig. 5). The main effect of response type was always significant, $F$s $(2, 97) > 36.63$, $p$s < .001, $\eta_p^2$s > .39. No interaction effect was significant, $F$s $(2, 97) < 1.27$, $p$s ≥ .282, except for relief.[^6]

We then conducted post hoc analyses to examine the effect of the response type in detail. Overall, AI responses were rated as funniest, most likable, and most effective, resulting in the highest relief, and human responses were rated the lowest on all four measures, with AI-assisted responses in between, $p$s ≤ .032 for all pair-wise comparisons (Fig. 5).

The results supported our hypothesis by showing that AI and AI-assisted humor outperformed human humor, as evaluated by both humor senders and receivers. Furthermore, AI-assisted humor did not perform as well as purely AI-generated humor. These findings will be discussed in more detail in the General Discussion.

### 7. Discussion

In four studies investigating the role of ChatGPT (GPT-4o) in humor generation, we found that GPT-4o outperformed humans in sentence tasks, although it underperformed in image tasks (Study 1). In Study 2,

[Figure: Line chart with y-axis ranging from 2 to 7 and x-axis categories “Adopt AI response,” “Incorporate AI response,” and “Keep own response.” Legend shows Funniness, Likability, Effectiveness, and Relief with error bars.]

**Fig. 4.** Effects of group on the scores from four perspectives (Study 4). Error bars represent 95 % CI.

[^6]: The difference between human and AI raters was slightly smaller for human responses than for the other two types of responses (see supplementary materials for detailed results).
