<pre>
1  Classify the following [Joke] as Funny or $Opposite as a person that enjoys $TypeOfHumour humour.
2
3  Joke: $JokeDescription
4  Classification:
</pre>

Figure 3: Prompt for personality induction.

<pre>
1  Classify the following [Joke] as Funny or $Opposite as a person that enjoys $TypeOfHumour humour.
2
3  Joke: $JokeDescription
4  Classification: $FunnyOrOpposite. Let’s think step by step why this [Joke] is $FunnyOrOpposite to a person that enjoys
5                  $TypeOfHumour humour.
</pre>

Figure 4: Prompt for the vote’s explanation for a particular personality.

step by step” extensively used in the recent literature [25, 15, 22]. This powerful prompt forces the LLM to produce a step-by-step explanation of the reasoning behind the output answer, in our case, why the joke is funny or not. The full prompt is shown in Figure 4.

Once each personality provides a vote and a reasoning for each joke, the next step is to audit those votes. Figure 5 shows the crafted prompt to validate a vote. It is checking if “the [Reasoning] explain why the [Joke] is [Classification]”. The LLM replies a simple “yes” or “no” answer. If the answer is a “no", this vote is discarded. Other policies could be applied, for example, before discarding a vote, and the LLM could be re-prompted with different parameters in order to output a different explanation. Different personalities could be used as different auditors. Finally, different auditing questions/prompts could be used to validate each answer. We leave the study of those policies for future work.

### 3.4 Score Aggregation

The last step is to aggregate the validated votes into a single score that represents the crowd’s judgement. This can be done using different functions. In this paper, we sum up the binary votes (1 - funny, 0 - not funny) as shown in Equation 1, where $i$ is a joke and $j$ a personality. Since we have four personalities, the crowd score is in the range [0,4] for each joke.

$$
CrowdScore_i = \sum vote_{i,j}
\tag{1}
$$

## 4 Results

In this section, we present the experimental results using the Crowd Score method applied to a dataset of jokes found on [4]. This dataset has been selected because it contains recent jokes, which were not included in the training dataset of our target model GPT-3, and these are non-trivial jokes that rely on common sense instead of wordplay. On top of that, this dataset is one of the few that also has a score/rating of funniness rated by human judges, so we can compare AI voters with human ones.

<pre>
1  Provide an answer to the following [Question], replaceing [Reasoning], [Joke] and [Classification]
2  slots for their contents.
3
4  Question: Does the [Reasoning] explain why the [Joke] is [Classification]?
5
6  Joke: $JokeDescription
7  Reasoning: $ReasoningDescription
8  Classification: $ClassificationDescription
9
10 Answer:
</pre>

Figure 5: Prompt for auditing vote’s explanations.
