## 4.1 Experimental Setup

The dataset in [4] is composed of 13 inputs (headlines). Each one was submitted to different human and non-human comedians, which generated each joke by completing the input. The comedians are: Open AI GPT-3, Witscript, Witscript 2 and Human [4]. GPT-3 is the LLM provided by OpenAI, the same one used in our experiments. Witscript and Witscript 2 are different versions of a joke writing algorithm developed by an expert comedian. And finally, the jokes were also generated by a professional human comedian. Four jokes were generated for each input, which is a total of 52 jokes. All jokes are within the aggressive/self-defeating spectrum, in contrast with the affiliative/self-enhancing one. The results in [4] show that jokes generated by GPT-3 achieved the lowest scores, while human jokes achieved the highest scores.

For all experiments, we set GPT-3 with text-davinci-002, the temperature and the top P are set 1 in order to maximize creativity. All experiments were run 3 times and the results shown are an arithmetic average/mean. All code used for this research can be found at<sup>2</sup>.

In order to evaluate the accuracy of the voting questions, we used two metrics: f-score and balanced accuracy. The positives and negatives correspond to if a joke is funny or not.

## 4.2 Voting Question

In this section, we discuss the results of the voting question step. First, all jokes from [4] were sorted by their corresponding human rating. Then, the four least funny (negatives) and the four funniest jokes (positives) were selected to compose a test dataset for finding the voting question with the highest accuracy in classifying jokes into funny and not funny. In this first set of experiments, the prompts in Figures 1 and 2 were used. The positives were fixed in the word “Funny" and the negatives (e.g opposite of funny) were varied between: “Not funny", “Dumb", “Unfunny", “Not Amusing", “Sad", “Serious", “Dull" and “Boring". Two versions were tested: zero-shot and few-shot. In the few-shot version, an example of a funny and another with a not funny joke were provided to the LLM.

Table 1 shows the results using the F-score and accuracy for this small dataset. As it can be observed, “Boring" and “Dull" presented the best accuracy, which means that they are better to split the jokes into funny and not funny. Few-shot prompting leads to better results than zero-shot as expected. However, picking the least appropriate opposite word can reduce the balanced accuracy by 26% and 25% for zero-shot and few-shot respectively. These results show that using a naive word such as “Not Funny" can lead to a significant reduction in the accuracy.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th colspan="2">F-Score</th>
      <th colspan="2">Balanced Accuracy</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>Zero-Shot</th>
      <th>Few-Shot</th>
      <th>Zero-Shot</th>
      <th>Few-Shot</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Funny / Boring</td>
      <td>0.89</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0.88</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Funny / Dull</td>
      <td>0.89</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0.88</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Funny / Serious</td>
      <td>0.8</td>
      <td>0.8</td>
      <td>0.75</td>
      <td>0.75</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Funny / Sad</td>
      <td>0.8</td>
      <td>0.8</td>
      <td>0.75</td>
      <td>0.75</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Funny / Not Amusing</td>
      <td>0.75</td>
      <td>0.86</td>
      <td>0.75</td>
      <td>0.88</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Funny / Unfunny</td>
      <td>0.67</td>
      <td>0.86</td>
      <td>0.62</td>
      <td>0.88</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Funny / Dumb</td>
      <td>0.67</td>
      <td>0.86</td>
      <td>0.62</td>
      <td>0.88</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Funny / Not Funny</td>
      <td>0.67</td>
      <td>0.86</td>
      <td>0.67</td>
      <td>0.88</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Table 1: Accuracy results using the small dataset composed of the four funniest jokes and the four least funny jokes for zero-shot and few-shot prompting of the voting question.

Based on these results, we ran a full experiment with all 52 jokes just for Boring (the best accuracy) and Not Funny (naive version). In this case, we considered all jokes with human rating larger than or equal to 2 as funny, and the ones less than 2 as not funny. In this case, 15 jokes were considered not funny and 37 considered funny. Table 2 shows that for few-shot there is a small improvement when using “Boring" instead of “Not Funny". However, for the zero-shot version the difference in accuracy is up to 19% regarding the F-score. This result shows that picking the correct opposite word can improve the classification accuracy.

## 4.3 Personality Induction

In order to induce personalities, we rely on the prompt in Figure 3. The personalities are based on the description of the types of humour which are known by the LLM. We evaluated four types of humour: affiliative, self-enhancing,

<sup>2</sup>https://github.com/creapar/crowdscore/
