and humour are challenging for machines because they involve complex concepts such as irony, sarcasm, and puns [8]. Jokes often rely on cultural context and knowledge, which can be difficult for a machine to access. However, recent work [9, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14] shows that prompting or fine-tuning LLMs for humour detection is a viable approach. On top of it, some recent publications show that LLMs can be configured/prompted to assume different personalities with zero and few-shot prompting [15]. This favours the creation of a crowd of AI voters, where each one’s vote is aggregated into a rating/score that can accurately measure the level of funniness of jokes, the CC-Crowd Score. In order to validate those votes, we apply an auditing technique that checks if the explanation for a particular vote is reasonable using the LLM. We believe that this method could be applied to other creative domains such as story, poetry, slogans, etc. It could both help the adoption of a flexible and accurate standard approach to compare different work in the CC community under a common metric and by minimizing human participation in assessing creative artefacts, we can accelerate the prototyping of creative artefacts and reduce the cost of hiring human participants to rate creative artefacts. In this paper, we focus on evaluating funniness of jokes as a case study.

We tested our methodology to assess the funniness of jokes from [4] in a crowd of four voters with different humour types [16]. Our results show that: i) few-shot prompting leads to better results than zero-shot for the voting question, where picking the least appropriate opposite word can reduce balanced accuracy by 26% and 25% for zero-shot and few-shot respectively; ii) personality induction showed that aggressive and self-defeating voters are significantly more inclined to find more jokes funny of a set of aggressive/self-defeating jokes than the affiliative and self-enhancing voters; and iii) the Crowd Score follows the same trend as human judges by assigning higher scores to jokes that are also considered funnier by human judges.

Our main contributions are:

- The Crowd Score, a novel method to assess jokes with LLMs using their intrinsic evaluation metrics. It relies on AI voters as judges for creativity instead of human judges, in which a crowd of AI voters are induced in a LLM and their votes are aggregated into a single score to rate jokes.
- An auditing technique to validate the votes of the AI judges using LLMs.
- A case study with 52 jokes and 4 induced personalities to assess the funniness of jokes.
- A set of prompt templates that could be customized to assess other creative artefacts.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we present the background and recent related work to support this research. In Section 3, we describe our Crowd Score method in details. Section 4 presents and analyzes the experimental results. This paper is concluded in Section 5.

## 2 Related Work

A major issue on humour research evaluation has been the lack of comprehensive datasets of jokes with ratings of funniness. [17] points out that most humour datasets are usually annotated in a binary fashion (funny or not funny), which does not capture the level of funniness. A fine grained evaluation of jokes reduces the chance of misjudging jokes that are considered borderline on average, but funny for particular groups of people. However, some recent publications make available databases with annotations on the rating of jokes [4, 18]. [17] also tackles that issue using crowd-sourcing to ask human volunteers to rate the funniness of modified headlines.

The use of large language models (LLMs), such as GPT-3, is becoming more prevalent for generating humorous texts. For instance, [9] rely on human participants to evaluate Chinese crosstalks (comic dialogues) generated by a fine-tuned GPT-3 in regard to general quality, humour, coherence and ethical risky content. The results show that the best generation achieved 65% of general quality, and that the humour criterion is not satisfied. It is important to remark that they used the standard BLEU metric to evaluate the performance of GPT-3. [12] also generates puns using GPT-3. Based on context words with ambiguous meanings, they provide the target pun word and its two meanings to GPT-3 and prompt it to generate puns. They also ask humans to evaluate if the generated puns are indeed puns and rate how funny they are. In [11], the authors propose a pun generator which, given a pun word pair, retrieves a context word and phrase, and they use GPT-2 to produce a pun. Human evaluators judged that their method achieved the highest funniness among other pun generators. In [10], the authors propose an approach to predict the funniness of news headlines using the BERT model. The approach was tested with the humour datasets from the SemEval-2020 workshop, achieving high performance. We can observe that there are two main approaches to LLM’s: fine-tuning [9, 7, 10, 11] and prompting [12, 13, 14]. However, most related work relies on human evaluators as the final judges of humour. We depart from this practice and claim that LLMs can be used as humour evaluators, even in their current stage.

An innovative approach is described in [7], in which the authors evaluate if large language models are capable of evaluating and explaining captions of the New Yorker Caption Contest. Those captions are humourous sentences
