|  | F-Score |  | Balanced Accuracy |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Zero-Shot | Few-Shot | Zero-Shot | Few-Shot |
| Funny/Boring | 0.78 | 0.83 | 0.7 | 0.78 |
| Funny/Not Funny | 0.59 | 0.81 | 0.6 | 0.76 |

Table 2: Accuracy results using the full dataset composed of 52 jokes for zero-shot and few-shot prompting of the voting question.

[Figure: Bar chart showing “Number of votes for funny jokes” for Affiliative, Self-Enhancing, Zero-Shot, Aggressive, and Self-Defeating.]

Figure 6: Number of votes for funny jokes by each personality compared to the zero-shot version (no personality).

aggressive and self defeating. Since the dataset is composed of jokes in the spectrum of aggressive and self-defeating jokes, it is expected that the aggressive and self-defeating personalities find more jokes funny than the other two personalities as confirmed by Figure 6. These personalities were induced using the zero-shot version, since the use of few-shot prompting (examples) overwrites the personality induction and all personalities achieve similar results. It is also important to note that the zero-shot version without personality induction lies in the middle of the spectrum. Zero-shot seems to be an average of all other types of humour, indicating that GPT-3 seems not to be biased towards a specific type of humour.

[Figure: Bar chart showing “Number of invalidated votes” for Affiliative, Self-Enhancing, Aggressive, and Self-Defeating.]

Figure 7: Number of invalidated votes per personality.

### 4.4 Auditing

Reliability is an important issue in LLMs and can lead to inaccurate results. In order to tackle this issue, we introduced an auditing prompt as shown in Figure 5 to ensure that each model’s decision/classification is based on convincing explanations. Normally, a human expert would be needed to check those explanations, introducing a bottleneck in the jokes rating. The Crowd Score method assumes that no human intervention is needed in the whole process of assessing the creative artifact, so the auditing is also automated.

Overall, the percentage of invalidated votes was 14% of all votes. It means that 14% of the explanations were not in accordance with the classification as Funny or Boring. Figure 7 shows the results for a number of invalidated votes per
