[Figure: Scatter/line plot with y-axis “Average score per joke” and x-axis “Jokes (least funny to funniest)”. Legend: “Crowd Score with only valid votes”, “Crowd Score with all votes”, “Human Rating”.]

Figure 8: Average scores from human judges from [4] and the average Crowd Score - all votes and only valid ones.

personality. This is explained by the fact that all jokes in the dataset are aggressive/self-defeating, so the content of the jokes provides more context (input) to the LLM, making it “easier” to justify the classification of those jokes. In Figures 9 and 10 in the Appendix, we show examples of a valid and an invalid vote.

In future work, it would be beneficial to use another model to audit the explanations to avoid any bias from the model evaluating itself. This could also be alleviated by inducing different personalities in the auditing process.

### 4.5 Score Aggregation

The Crowd Score is calculated using Equation 1. In order to compare our results with [4], where human judges rated jokes from 1 (not a joke) to 4 (very good joke), we also normalized the crowd score in the range [1,4]. Figure 8 shows the trending curves for the Crowd Score using all votes and only valid votes as compared with the human ratings. The results show that the Crowd Score is able to follow a similar tendency of the human evaluators, using all votes or only the valid ones. The scatter plot shows the scores for each joke. It is important to note that for the top 10 jokes, only one score in 20 was below 3, and for the bottom 10 jokes, only 5 in 20 scores above 3. This indicates that the Crowd Score is fairly accurate at detecting the funniest and the least funny jokes.

The percentage of invalid votes is small enough not to affect the overall tendency. Interestingly, the curve for all votes is a bit more similar to the human rating. Inspection of the results by a human expert showed that the current auditing prompt is efficient to capture positives, but around 40% of votes that it still invalidates should be considered valid.

## 5 Conclusion

In this paper, we present the Crowd Score, a new method for assessing the creativity of artefacts using LLMs as AI judges. We applied this method to assess the funniness of jokes from [4] in a crowd of four voters with different humour types: affiliative, self-enhancing, aggressive and self-defeating. Our results show that prompting LLMs for humour detection is a viable approach. The Crowd Score follows the same trend as human judges by assigning higher scores to jokes that are also considered funnier by human judges. This method could be applied to other creative domains such as story, poetry, slogans, etc. It could help both the adoption of a flexible and accurate standard approach to compare different work in the CC community under a common metric and by minimizing human participation in assessing creative artefacts. We can accelerate the prototyping of creative artefacts and reduce the cost of hiring human volunteers to rate creative artefacts.

The findings in this research point in the direction that AI voters can be used as judges of humour in the process of evaluating jokes. This would reduce the bottleneck of asking human judges to assess jokes. This could enable comedians to have an instantaneous feedback system to evaluate their jokes before releasing them to the public.

This research opens up many possibilities for future work. Firstly, automated ways of finding the best voting questions could be explored. Secondly, how much description is enough to induce a personality is also an open problem and it can depend on the target domain and public. Another open question is on how to audit LLM’s explanations in order to achieve the highest reliability. This could be done by creating multiple prompts/questions verifying different aspects of the explanation, or by using external auditors through other LLMs. Auditors could also be configured to assume different personalities. Also, the Crowd Score itself could be aggregated in different ways. An important future work is to use AI voters as judges in other domains such as stories, slogans, poetry etc. to be part of a fully automated
