describing a cartoon. Results show that a fine-tuned GPT-3 cannot recognize the captions’ relevance, evaluate or explain them as effectively as humans. However, their partial capacity can be sufficient to work as creative collaborators. This work strongly corroborates our claim that despite being imperfect, current LLMs can be used as judges of humour. We move one step further and rely on concepts introduced in [14] to induce LLMs with different personalities to provide different opinions/rating about the humour of a joke.

In [14], the authors propose a method to induce a certain personality on large language models. The personality is based on the Big Five personality factors. The paper compares two approaches. The naive one uses zero-shot learning to prompt a personality using “You are a/an X person”, where X is one of the five factors, and the “Word Level Auto-Prompt” approach imposes the 3 most significant words to describe each factor. Both approaches are evaluated by prompting the model to answer the Big Five questionnaire. Results show that it is possible to simulate the desired personality using both methods. Another work [19] uses GPT-3 to simulate responses of humans by varying their names and other details, under some human experiments such as the Ultimatum Game. Results show that GPT-3 responses are consistent with prior human studies. Another study [20] used GPT-3 to generate data to train conversational models and compared them with real data generated by humans. The authors assume that large language models can be used to replace humans when data is scarce. In our proposal, we combine the possibility of inducing a certain personality with the capability of LLMs to evaluate the humour level of jokes to create a method, as an alternative to traditional metrics, that could also be applied to evaluate jokes.

The use of LLMs as an alternative to traditional metrics is supported by recent research in [21], where the authors show that automatic reference-free and reference-based metrics, such as BLEU, BERTScore, BLANC and QuestEval, are ineffective to evaluate the quality of news summaries generated by zero-shot GPT-3, when compared to the human evaluation. Instead of relying on a single metric, we use the idea of aggregation as in [22], where aggregation is used to Q&A tasks for large language models. By using prompt chains, an input claim is converted into a question, and multiple noisy answers are generated. Those answers, which are binary (yes/no), are aggregated using weak supervision into a final prediction. Our work proposes aggregation of binary votes generated by multiple voters with induced personalities in large language models, instead of imperfect/noisy answers as in [22].

Another issue is the reliability of prompting GPT-3. In [23], prompts are created to induce reliable behaviors on GPT-3. The paper shows that retrieving evidence passages for Q&A problems can improve the performance of GPT-3. It also shows that GPT-3 memorized answers can be updated by adding conflicting passages in the prompts, allowing it to output different answers in accordance with this new context. Differently, in our work, we employ a voting question prompt to ensure that we pick the best pair of words in the binary classification/voting. We also propose the concept of auditing, where the LLM is used to check if the explanations of the votes by each voter are reasonable/consistent before computing the respective votes as valid.

Finally, in terms of creativity, on top of the other related work presented, [24] assessed GPT-3’s creativity using the Guilford’s Alternative Uses Test and compared with human responses on value, novelty and surprise. They have used a very detailed, handcrafted prompt to instruct GPT-3 to list the creative uses of objects. Their results show that humans rating outperform GPT-3 only by a small difference. This is yet another evidence that endorses the current capacity of GPT-3 to address problems in the creative domain.

In this paper, we argue that by deploying a large language model equipped with voters with different personalities, we can accurately rate the funniness of jokes, without the need for human judges.

## 3 Crowd Score

The main goal of the Crowd Score method is to provide a method to assess the creativity of artifacts using a crowd of AI as judges. This method consists of the following steps: i) Voting Question, ii) Personality Induction, iii) Auditing and iv) Score Aggregation. First, a voting question that will be prompted to the AI crowd should be selected. Secondly, each AI voter should be configured to a different personality. Those personalities should reflect the audience with the appropriate traits that are relevant to the assessment of the creative artifact. For example, in the jokes domain, the humour type is the most important trait. Then, each personality should reply to the voting question with an answer (e.g. funny or not funny) and an explanation about the reasoning behind this vote. This is validated by an auditing prompt to ensure that votes are based on solid/reasonable argumentation, instead of randomness. The final step is to aggregate the individual votes to form the crowd score that indicates how much creative is an artifact. Those steps will be detailed in the following sections.

These sections are also accompanied by a set of prompts to implement those steps. We use the following notation for prompting. Slots are equivalent to variables, where their content can be stored or updated. Slots are in the form: "Identifier: $Description", where Identifier is the name of the slot and $Description is the content of a slot. For example:
