1 Classify the following [Joke] as Funny or $Opposite.

2

3 Joke: $JokeDescription  
4 Classification:

Figure 1: Zero-shot voting question to classify the joke as funny or its opposite (not funny, dumb, boring etc.).

1 Classify the following [Joke] as Funny or $Opposite.

2

3 Joke: $FunnyJokeDescription  
4 Classification: Funny.  
5

6 Joke: $NotFunnyJokeDescription  
7 Classification: $Opposite.  
8

9 Joke: $JokeDescription  
10 Classification:

Figure 2: Few-shot voting question prompt to classify the joke as funny or its opposite (not funny, dumb, boring etc.).

"Joke: Why did the chicken run across the road? To get to the other side.". The notation [Identifier] is used to reference a particular slot, for example, the following prompt displays the content of a slot: "Show the content of [Joke].".

### 3.1 Voting Question

This first step consists of identifying the most appropriate prompt for the voting question. This prompt should be crafted in a way that leads to high accuracy in the LLM prediction for a subset of known positives and negatives, respectively funny and not funny jokes in this research. This is important, as we show in Section 4, because depending on the pair of words used, the LLM accuracy can vary significantly. For jokes, the prompt should make the LLM model decide if a joke is funny or not funny. Figures 1 and 2 show zero-shot and few-shot prompts. In the few-shot prompt, examples of a funny joke and a not funny one are provided. In our experiments, we fixed the "funny" word and varied the $Opposite (e.g. not funny, dumb, boring, etc.) until we found the opposite word that achieves the best accuracy in identifying positives and negatives.

### 3.2 Personality Induction

Once the voting question prompt is tuned to achieve high accuracy, our method requires the definition of the shortest and the most accurate set of traits that should be used to describe each personality [14]. Zero-shot prompting can be used if the LLM model has knowledge about the personality traits. In particular, the classification of jokes there are four types of humour: affiliative, self-enhancing, aggressive and self-defeating [16]. Affiliative humor is a non-hostile, tolerant use of humor that is affirming of self and others. Self-enhancing humor is used to make people feel good about themselves. Aggressive humor is the use of sarcasm, teasing, ridicule, derision, and put-downs. Finally, self-defeating humor involves poking fun at oneself for the enjoyment of others. The LLM was prompted to define those types of humour and they were described correctly, so in this research we assume that zero-shot prompt is enough to induce personalities with those traits. Since the type of humour is the only important trait in our experiments, we create personalities induced by the following prompt: "Classify the following [Joke] as Funny or $Opposite **as a person that enjoys $TypeOfHumour humour.**". The full prompt can be seen in Figure 3.

The use of different personalities is crucial to the creation of a diverse crowd of AI voters. Depending on the creative domain, target public and LLM, the number of personalities and traits can vary significantly and zero-shot might not be possible. Instead, it might be necessary to describe the personalities from scratch and with enough detail.

### 3.3 Auditing

Each vote of each personality needs to be validated before it is accepted and included as part of the crowd score. Reliability is an issue with current LLMs, and additional checks should be conducted to assess if the LLM outputted a vote based on a logical reasoning and not just as noise from the model. In order to achieve that goal, two prompts were designed. The first one prompts the LLM for a reasoning using the CoT (Chain-of-Thought) prompt “Let’s think
