[Figure: Three radar charts showing all models’ F1 performance across six datasets. Axes include iSarcasmEval, IAC-V2, IAC-V1, Ghosh, SemEval Task 3, and Riloff. Legends include Baichuan 2, ChatGLM 2, ChatGLM 3, Llama 2, Llama 3, Mistral, Qwen 1.5, Qwen 2, ChatGPT, GPT-4, and Claude 3.]

(a) Zero-shot IO setting.

(b) Few-shot IO setting.

(c) CoT setting.

Figure 6: The radar illustration of all models’ F1 performance across six datasets.

with texts where sarcasm was deeply tied to contextual or cultural nuances. For instance, in Example 3 (“Being half Spanish and not being able to speak Spanish is honestly so disappointing”), the sarcasm lies in the speaker’s ironic expression of disappointment. GPT-4 misclassified this as non-sarcastic, possibly due to its difficulty in detecting sarcasm embedded in personal or cultural identity issues. Similarly, in Example 4 (“I literally just ate 1/4 of a pan of brownies ... #damnit #notagain”), the self-deprecating tone and hashtags signal sarcasm, which GPT-4 failed to recognize.

**(2) Literal interpretation.** Claude 3 and LLaMA 3 generally performed better in identifying sarcasm when there was a stark contrast between the literal meaning and the intended message. For example, in Example 1 (“So many useless classes, great to be a student”), both models correctly identified the sarcastic tone. However, Claude 3 failed to detect sarcasm in Example 5 (“i love doing laundry”), where the lack of overt emotional indicators may have led to a more literal interpretation, causing the model to misclassify it as non-sarcastic.

**(3) Bias.** All three models misclassified Example 6 (“I just love not hanging out with my boyfriend”) as sarcastic, despite the straightforward nature of the statement. This suggests that the models might be overfitting to common sarcastic patterns, such as the phrase “I just love...” which is often used sarcastically. This shows that the models rely heavily on pattern recognition rather than contextual understanding. In addition, the ambiguity of the phrase posed a challenge for Claude 3 and LLaMA 3.

This analysis underscores the necessity for LLMs to develop a more profound contextual comprehension and enhanced interpretative skills to minimize prediction inaccuracies in sarcasm detection.

#### 4.11. Evaluating LLMs on Multi-Modal Sarcasm Understanding

Due to the rapid surge of multi-modal data on social networks, leveraging multi-modal information to enhance human language understanding and reasoning has become increasingly attractive and significant. Beyond text-based LLMs, multi-modal LLMs typically incorporate modality encoders, connectors, and generators. Through modality-aligned pre-training, these models acquire the ability to process multi-modal information. Therefore, in this section, we aim to investigate their capabilities for understanding multi-modal sarcasm.

More specifically, we select two popular and publicly accessible multi-modal sarcasm detection datasets, namely, MMSD [46] and CMMA [17], as our experimental platforms. We evaluate four state-of-the-art multi-modal LLMs: Retrieval-LLaVA 1.5 [47], GPT-4V<sup>7</sup>, Wenxin 4<sup>8</sup>, and Qwen-VL-Plus [48]. Given that CoT prompting is less effective in sarcasm understanding, we employ only the zero-shot IO prompting method for GPT-4V, Qwen-VL-Plus and Wenxin 4. Their prompts are: “Based on the image and corresponding text below, analysis both the image and the text, determine whether they are sarcastic or not. If they are sarcastic output ‘sarcastic’, otherwise, output ‘non-sarcastic’. Return the label only without any other

<sup>7</sup>https://openai.com/index/gpt-4v-system-card/  
<sup>8</sup>https://yiyan.baidu.com/
