as encoders for obtaining effective text representations. For example, Liu et al. [22] proposed a dual-channel framework by modeling both literal and implied sentiments separately [22]. They also constructed two conflict prompts to elicit PLMs to generate the sarcasm polarity [23]. Qiao et al. presented a mutual-enhanced incongruity learning network to take advantage of the underlying consistency between the two modules to boost the performance [24]. Tian et al. proposed a dynamic routing Transformer network to activate different routing transformer modules for modeling the dynamic mechanism in sarcasm detection [25].

However, the above-mentioned works still focus on how to utilize PLMs to extract effective features, without leveraging the extraordinary understanding capabilities of LLMs. In contrast, this paper employs three prompting methods to make the first attempt to explore the potential of prompting LLMs in sarcasm detection.

### 2.2. *Large Language Models*

LLMs are advanced language models characterized by their substantial parameter sizes and exceptional learning capabilities [26]. In recent years, the community of natural language processing (NLP) has witnessed substantial progress largely due to the development of LLMs. These models excel in areas such as in-context learning, few-shot prompting, and following complex instructions. OpenAI has been at the forefront of this innovation, notably with the introduction of transformative models such as ChatGPT and GPT-4. Nevertheless, the exclusive nature of these technologies has led to the emergence of various LLM versions, which often incorporate tens or even hundreds of billions of parameters [27]. We categorize these LLMs into two groups based on their specialization: general LLMs and specialized LLMs.

General LLMs are designed for versatility across a wide spectrum of NLP tasks. Prominent examples of these models are GPT-4, ChatGLM 4, LLaMA 3<sup>3</sup>, PanGu-Σ [28], Baichuan 3<sup>4</sup>, etc. Such LLMs often perform well across a range of tasks, but their potentials in specific domains await further exploration. In contrast, specialized LLMs are fine-tuned for specific tasks via task-specific architectures and knowledge, allowing them to achieve higher performance. For example, Zhang et al. proposed a fine-tuned context and emotion knowledge tuned LLM for emotion recognition in conversations [2]. They also presented RGPT, an adaptive boosting framework tailored to produce a specialized text classification LLM by recurrently ensembling a pool of strong base learners [3, 29].

However, the above-mentioned studies do not involve sarcasm understanding, we propose an evaluation framework to unlock its potential in sarcasm understanding.

## 3. The Proposed Approach

### 3.1. *Task Definition*

Sarcasm detection is transformed as a conditional generative task, where the output $\mathcal{Y}$ will be the labels. Given a set of input texts $\mathcal{X}=\{x_1,x_2,\ldots,x_N\}$ where each document $x_i$ is augmented with a designed prompt $Prompt_i \in \mathcal{P}$ that provides contextual guidance, i.e., $Prompt_i = INS_i \oplus x_i$, where $INS_i$ represents the task instruction, $\mathcal{P}$ represents the prompt set. Our task is to let a LLM $\mathcal{M}$ map an input document to its target label: $\mathcal{M}(\mathcal{X}, \mathcal{P}, \theta) \rightarrow \mathcal{Y}$, where $\mathcal{Y}=\{y_1,y_2,\ldots,y_N\}$ denotes the label sequence generated by the LLM $\mathcal{M}$. We formulate the problem as:

$$
\mathcal{M}=\arg \max_c \prod_i Prob(y_i=c|x_i, INS_i, \theta)
\tag{1}
$$

### 3.2. *Evaluation Approach*

Fig. 2 shows the overview of our proposed evaluation framework. Initially, we take both sarcastic and non-sarcastic samples as inputs. Subsequently, we design prompts tailored specifically for sarcasm. This involves constructing task instructions and providing examples for few-shot learning. Our evaluation utilizes three distinct prompting approaches: zero-shot IO prompting, few-shot IO prompting, and CoT prompting. These methods are implemented to assess how effectively LLMs generate responses that are both valid and rigorously aligned with the subtleties of sarcastic expressions. Finally, we analyze and compare the outputs generated by the LLMs against the ground truth to evaluate the models’ proficiency in understanding and detecting sarcasm.

### 3.3. *Prompt Construction*

Our prompt $Prompt_i$ contains of three key components:

**(1) Task instruction.** It clearly defines the specific sarcasm detection task the model needs to accomplish. In this work, the task instruction is given as follows:

<sup>3</sup>https://llama.meta.com/  
<sup>4</sup>https://www.baichuan-ai.com
