the experiments are conducted on an NVIDIA GeForce GTX 4090 GPU.

#### 4.4. *Compared Baselines*

A wide range of strong baselines are included for comparison including DLMs, PLMs and LLMs. They are:

- ***Random:***

  **(1) Random** This baseline makes random predictions sampled uniformly across the test set.

- ***DLMs based approaches:***

  **(2) TextCNN [38]** designs a CNN [38] with three convolutional layers and a fully connected layer. It is trained on top of word embeddings for utterance-level classification.

  **(3) LSTM** takes word embeddings as input and takes the hidden representation of each word for sarcasm classification.

  **(4) Bi-LSTM [39]** implements a bidirectional LSTM to learn both forward and backward long-range dependency information.

  **(5) AT-LSTM [40]:** is an attention-based LSTM with aspect embedding. We obtain aspect embeddings by averaging the vectors of words, and append it with each word embedding vector.

- ***PLMs based approaches:***

  **(6) BERT [41]** produces contextualized word embeddings for sarcasm detection.

  **(7) RoBERTa [42]** builds on BERT and modifies key hyperparameters, removing the next-sentence pretraining objective and training with much larger mini-batches and learning rates.

  **(8) DeBERT [43]** improves the BERT and RoBERTa models using the disentangled attention mechanism.

  **(9) XLNet [44]** improves the BERT through a generalized autoregressive pretraining method enables learning bidirectional contexts by maximizing the expected likelihood over all permutations of the factorization order.

  **(10) DC-Net-RoBERTa [45]** designs the dual-channel network (DC-Net) to recognize sentiment conflict by modeling both literal and implied sentiments separately.

- ***LLMs based approaches:***

  **(11) Baichuan 2 [12]** is a Chinese LLM trained from scratch, on 2.6 trillion tokens. It matches or outperforms other open-source models of similar size on public benchmarks.

  **(12-13) ChatGLM 2/3 [13]** are two open bilingual language model based on General Language Model (GLM) framework, with 6.2 billion parameters.

  **(14-15) LLaMA 2/3 [14]** are trained on 2 trillion tokens, and have double the context length than Llama 1, and outperform other open source language models on many external benchmarks.

  **(16) Mistral [11]** consistently outperforms Llama2-13B on all metrics and stands competitively with Llama-34B.

  **(17-18) Qwen 1.5/2 [15]** are two SOTA LLMs trained on data in 27 additional languages besides English and Chinese and achieves state-of-the-art performance in a large number of benchmark evaluations.

  **(19-20) GPT-3.5/4 [10]** are considered as two strongest general LLM.

  **(21) Claude 3**[^6] is Anthropic’s second-most powerful AI model, with strong performance on highly complex tasks.

#### 4.5. *Results and Analysis of Zero-Shot IO Prompting*

We report all of the **Accuracy, Precision, Recall** and macro **F1** scores for 21 models in Table 2. We highlight three key observations:

**(1) In the zero-shot IO setting, PLMs demonstrate outstanding performance, significantly surpassing traditional DLMs.** For instance, RoBERTa achieves an average F1 score of 71.3 across all datasets, while DC-Net-RoBERTa reaches 71.5. In contrast, traditional models like Bi-LSTM and AT-LSTM score lower, with F1 scores of 66.7 and 65.3, respectively. PLMs outperform traditional methods by approximately 7.8%↑. This superiority stems from the extensive pretraining that PLMs undergo on large-scale data, enabling them to better capture contextual information and adapt to various tasks. Although traditional deep learning models perform adequately on specific tasks, their lack of large-scale pretraining support limits their generalization capabilities, resulting in weaker performance.

[^6]: https://claude.ai/
