**Few-shot CoT prompting** extends the idea of few-shot prompting by explicitly modeling intermediate reasoning steps between the input $x$ and the final output $y$. The LLM is guided through a sequence of logical steps $z_1, z_2, \ldots, z_n$, leading to the final answer. This process is described as:

$$
[z_1, z_2, \ldots, z_n, y] \sim p_{\mathrm{CoT}\theta}(z_1, z_2, \ldots, z_n, y \mid x),
$$

where each $z_i$ represents a coherent reasoning step. By incorporating these intermediate steps, the model is better able to handle complex tasks, such as solving multi-step problems or answering detailed questions.

## 4. Experiments

### 4.1. *Dataset*

**Datasets.** Six benchmark datasets are selected as the experimental beds which encompass the most significant datasets used in sarcasm detection tasks. They are IAC-V1 [31], IAC-V2 [32], Ghosh [33], iSarcasmEval [34], Riloff [35] and SemEval 2018 Task 3 [36].

**IAC-V1 and IAC-V2** are from the Internet Argument Corpus (IAC) [37], specifically designed for the task of identifying and analyzing sarcastic remarks within online debates and discussions. It encompasses a balanced mixture of sarcastic and non-sarcastic comments.

**Ghosh** consists of 51,189 tweets (24,453 sarcastic tweets and 26,736 non-sarcastic tweets) in which sarcastic tweets are automatically collected from Twitter using the user’s self-declaration of sarcasm/irony with sarcastic and ironic hashtags (e.g. #irony, #sarcasm). In this work, we have conducted a thorough double-check of this dataset and successfully filtered out 7,804 noisy tweets.

**iSarcasmEval** is the first shared task to target intended sarcasm detection. Each sample in this dataset is provided and labelled by the authors of the texts themselves. For sarcastic texts, there is a rephrase that conveys the same message non-sarcastically. For English sarcastic texts, there is a label specifying the category of ironic speech that it reflects.

**Riloff** collects a set of 1,600 tweets that contain #sarcasm or #sarcastic, and another 1,600 without these tags. It chooses to remove such tags from all tweets and present the tweets to a group of human annotators for final labelling.

**SemEval 2018 Task 3** is collected using irony-related hashtags (i.e. #irony, #sarcasm, #not) and are subsequently manually annotated to minimize the amount of noise in the corpora. It emphasizes the challenges inherent in identifying sarcasm within the constraints of MUStARD’s concise format and highlights the importance of context and linguistic subtleties in recognizing sarcasm. The statistics for each dataset are shown in Table 1.

Table 1: Dataset statistics.

| Dataset | Train | Valid | Test | Sarcastic | Non-sarcastic |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| IAC-V1 | 1214 | 304 | 417 | 973 | 962 |
| IAC-V2 | 4031 | 1008 | 1481 | 3260 | 3260 |
| Ghosh | 32708 | 8687 | 2000 | 19546 | 23839 |
| iSarcasmEval | 821 | 280 | 299 | 200 | 1200 |
| Riloff | 276 | 100 | 113 | 77 | 412 |
| SemEval Task 3 | 2910 | 924 | 784 | 2222 | 2396 |

### 4.2. *Evaluation Metrics*

To make a fair comparison, we employ *precision* (P), *recall* (R), *accuracy* (Acc) and *F1* as evaluation metrics. For each method, we run five random seeds and report the average result of the test sets. The metrics are written as:

$$
\begin{aligned}
P &= \frac{TP}{TP + FP}, \\
R &= \frac{TP}{TP + FN}, \\
F1 &= \frac{2 * P * R}{P + R}, \\
Acc &= \frac{TP + TN}{TP + FN + FP + TN},
\end{aligned}
\tag{2}
$$

where TP (True Positives) is the number of positive samples correctly identified, FP (False Positives) is the number of negative samples incorrectly labeled as positive, FN (False Negatives) is the number of positive samples incorrectly labeled as negative, TN (True Negatives) is the number of negative samples correctly identified.

### 4.3. *Implementation Details*

We use the official implementations and hyper-parameters for all traditional deep learning models (DLMs) and PLMs based approaches. For example, all weight matrices are given their initial values by sampling from a uniform distribution $U(-0.1, 0.1)$. The learning rate is set to 5e-5. The batch size is set to 32 and the number of epochs is set to 30. The dropout rate is set to 0.5. In contrast, the LLMs based methods are implemented with the respective official Python API library and the Hugging Face Transformers library[^5]. All

[^5]: https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers
