# SarcasmBench: Towards Evaluating Large Language Models on Sarcasm Understanding

Yazhou Zhang<sup>a,e</sup>, Chunwang Zou<sup>b</sup>, Zheng Lian<sup>c,*</sup>, Prayag Tiwari<sup>d,*</sup>, Jing Qin<sup>e</sup>

<sup>a</sup>*College of Intelligence and Computing, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China*  
<sup>b</sup>*College of Software Engineering, Zhengzhou University of Light Industry, China*  
<sup>c</sup>*Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China*  
<sup>d</sup>*School of Information Technology, Halmstad University, Sweden*  
<sup>e</sup>*The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, HongKong*

---

## Abstract

In the era of large language models (LLMs), the task of “System I” - the fast, unconscious, and intuitive tasks, e.g., sentiment analysis, text classification, etc., have been argued to be successfully solved. However, sarcasm, as a subtle linguistic phenomenon, often employs rhetorical devices like hyperbole and figuration to convey true sentiments and intentions, involving a higher level of abstraction than sentiment analysis. There is growing concern that the argument about LLMs’ success may not be fully tenable when considering sarcasm understanding. To address this question, we select eleven SOTA LLMs and eight SOTA pre-trained language models (PLMs) and present comprehensive evaluations on six widely used benchmark datasets through different prompting approaches, i.e., zero-shot input/output (IO) prompting, few-shot IO prompting, chain of thought (CoT) prompting. We build SarcasmBench, the first benchmark to comprehensively evaluate LLMs on sarcasm understanding. Our results highlight three key findings: (1) current LLMs underperform supervised PLMs based sarcasm detection baselines. This suggests that significant efforts are still required to improve LLMs’ understanding of human sarcasm. (2) GPT-4 consistently and significantly outperforms other LLMs across various prompting methods, with an average improvement of 14.0%↑. (3) Few-shot IO prompting method outperforms the other two methods: zero-shot IO and few-shot CoT. We hope this paper can provide some guidance for subsequent researchers to better solve sarcasm detection in the era of LLMs.

*Keywords:* Large language models, sarcasm detection, prompting strategy

---

## 1. Introduction

Recent large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated outstanding instruction-following and in-context learning abilities across various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, such as question answering [1], sentiment analysis [2], text classification [3], etc. In the era of LLMs, it has been argued that “System I” tasks - the fast, unconscious, and intuitive tasks have been successfully solved [4]. Persistent focus and efforts from both the academic and industrial sectors have primarily concentrated on what is known as “System II” tasks. Such tasks demand slow, deliberate, and multiple-step cognitive processes, including logical, mathematical, and commonsense reasoning [5].

Sarcasm is a subtle linguistic phenomenon that employs rhetorical devices like hyperbole and figuration to convey true sentiments and intentions that are opposite to the literal meanings of the words used [6]. Humans might say something that sounds positive on the surface, but in reality, they are expressing a negative sentiment. For example, the sentence “I like to be reprimanded.” appears to convey a positive sentiment because it includes the word “like”, which typically signifies positive emotion. However, “reprimanded” generally implies criticism and negative feedback. Sarcasm detection aims to determine whether a given text is sarcastic or non-sarcastic by leveraging different types of information, such as linguistic features, contextual information, etc [7]. Due to its inherently ambiguous and metaphorical nature, sarcasm detection has consistently presented significant challenges, evolving from the era of feature engineering to that of prompt engineering [8, 9].

There is growing concern that the argument about

<sup>*</sup>Corresponding authors.

*Preprint submitted to INFORMATION PROCESSING & MANAGEMENT* August 27, 2024
