[Figure: Bar chart of “Total Laughter (dB × Time)” by “Joke ID,” with legend “Source” showing Human and AI. Bars in order: Joke ID 7 = 241 (AI), 4 = 231 (H), 2 = 101 (AI), 1 = 79 (H), 6 = 60 (H), 3 = 53 (AI), 8 = 46 (H), 5 = 25 (AI).]

Figure 2: The jokes written by the human expert (H) and Witscript (AI) in order of the Total Laughter they elicited in Set 1. Joke ID corresponds to the actual order in which the jokes were told. The jokes are listed in the Appendix.

audience laughter, was an AI-complete problem, we would expect that:

$H_0$: *None of the AI-generated jokes would perform better than any of the professional human writer’s.*

We could reject this hypothesis if:

$H_1$: Some of the AI-generated jokes performed better than some of the Human’s.

## 5 Results and Discussion

### 5.1 Analysis Within a Set

Figure 2 displays the eight jokes performed in Set 1[^1] ranked by the Total Laughter they elicited. Three of the four jokes written by AI elicited more laughter than at least one joke written by the human expert. Additionally, the joke that elicited the most laughter was AI-written.

This result is in line with $H_1$, in that some of the AI-written jokes did better than some of the Human’s. The same pattern held true for Set 2; see the Appendix for the data. If we deem this result to be reliable, we can conclude that writing the type of humor analyzed here is not AI-complete. How can we determine this reliability?

How reliable is the measure itself? The measure captures the total laughter of an audience of N=35 and 15 in Sets 1 and 2, respectively. In a classical experiment, jokes are rated by a handful of raters. While audience members' responses are not entirely independent (e.g., laughter is contagious) whatever effect audience members had on each other was present for all jokes and presumably had the effect of signal amplification rather than of cancellation of individual differences. Additionally, unlike with raters, it is not possible to tease apart the contributions of individual raters (here, audience members). Despite these drawbacks, the number of raters/audience members is much larger than in a typical study in the field, suggesting higher reliability than the standard. The validity of the measure is arguably higher since the measure is of a natural response to jokes in a natural environment. However, there may be other forms of humor for which a traditional approach using numerical ratings would be better suited than our measurement method.

How did the Human and AI jokes compare? The funniest joke (area under the curve = 241) was written by AI. On average, AI did slightly better ($M$ = 106, $SD$ = 96) than the Human ($M$ = 104, $SD$ = 86) in Set 1, with the reverse true in Set 2 (AI: $M$ = 66, $SD$ = 21; Human $M$ = 99, $SD$ = 93). However, these differences were not significant (both sets: Mann-Whitney U(4,4) = 8.0, ns). The lack of statistical difference between the groups is not meaningful with the present sample size. Instead, as explained above (see the hypotheses), we rely on a standard similar to Deep Blue's and Watson’s, that of a limited live demonstration of equivalence to human performance, which we have met.

### 5.2 Comparison Between the Sets

As described above, the two sets had the same eight topics, for which half of the punchlines were written by AI and half by the Human. The jokes were counterbalanced so that if a particular topic had a punchline written by the Human in Set 1 it would have a punchline written by AI in Set 2, and vice versa.

The audience size for Set 1 was bigger than for Set 2 (35 vs. 15), resulting in longer laugh times (M = 2.16 sec. vs. 1.71 sec.) and greater values on our Total Laughter metric (M = 105 vs. 83). But

[^1]: Set 1 had the bigger audience (N=35). It would be inappropriate to display jokes from both sets in this figure because of the difference in the Loudness baseline.
