## Acknowledgments

We would like to thank the following comedians for their insights and help: Mike Perkins, Kevin Hickerson, Ajitesh Srivastava, and the comedy/talk show writer who wrote the Human jokes for the experiment.

## References

Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. 2020. A Survey on Approaches to Computational Humor Generation. In *Proceedings of the 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, pages 29–41, Online. International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Ori Amir et al. 2022. The elephant in the room: attention to salient scene features increases with comedic expertise. *Cognitive Processing*, 23(2), 203-215.

Ori Amir and Irving Biederman. 2016. The Neural Correlates of Humor Creativity. *Frontiers in Human Neuroscience*, 10(597).

Jacob Brawer and Ori Amir. 2021. Mapping the ‘funny bone’: neuroanatomical correlates of humor creativity in professional comedians. *Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience*, 16(9), 915-925.

Tom B. Brown et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.14165.

Fabricio Goes, Zisen Zhou, Piotr Sawicki, Marek Grzes, and Daniel G. Brown. 2022. Crowd score: A method for the evaluation of jokes using large language model AI voters as judges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.11214.

Drew Gorenz and Norbert Schwarz. 2024. How funny is ChatGPT? A comparison of human- and AI-produced jokes. PLoS ONE 19(7): e0305364. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0305364.

He He, Nanyun Peng and Percy Liang. 2019. Pun Generation with Surprise. North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, Michael Gamon, and Henry Kautz. 2020. SemEval-2020 Task 7: Assessing Humor in Edited News Headlines. In *Proceedings of the Fourteenth Workshop on Semantic Evaluation*, pages 746–758, Barcelona (online). International Committee for Computational Linguistics.

Matthew M. Hurley, Daniel C. Dennett, and Reginald B. Adams. 2011. Inside Jokes: Using Humor to Reverse-Engineer the Mind. MIT Press.

Marcio L. Inácio and Hugo G. Oliveira. 2024. Generation of Punning Riddles in Portuguese with Prompt Chaining. 15th International Conference on Computational Creativity (ICCC'24).

Carolyn Lamb, Daniel G. Brown, and Charles L.A. Clarke. 2015. Human Competence in Creativity Evaluation. Sixth International Conference on Computational Creativity.

Tyler Loakman, Aaron Maladry, and Chenghua Lin. 2023. The Iron(ic) Melting Pot: Reviewing Human Evaluation in Humour, Irony and Sarcasm Generation. Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.

John H. Matthews. 2004. Simpson’s 3/8 Rule for Numerical Integration, Numerical Analysis-Numerical Methods Project.

Anirudh Mittal, Yufei Tian, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. AmbiPun: Generating Humorous Puns with Ambiguous Context. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 1053–1062, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Stavros Petridis and Maja Pantic. Is this joke really funny? Judging the mirth by audiovisual laughter analysis. 2009. In *2009 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo*, New York, NY, USA, pp. 1444-1447, doi: 10.1109/ICME.2009.5202774.

Saša Petrović and David Matthews. 2013. Unsupervised joke generation from big data. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 228–232, Sofia, Bulgaria. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Sophie Scott, Nadine Lavan, Sinead Chen, and Carolyn McGettigan. 2014. The social life of laughter. *Trends in Cognitive Sciences*, 18(12), 618–620. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2014.09.002.

Alexey Tikhonov and Pavel Shtykovskiy. 2024. Humor Mechanics: Advancing Humor Generation with Multistep Reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.07280.

Joe Toplyn. 2014. *Comedy Writing for Late-Night TV: How to Write Monologue Jokes, Desk Pieces, Sketches, Parodies, Audience Pieces, Remotes, and Other Short-Form Comedy*. Twenty Lane Media, LLC, Rye, New York.

Joe Toplyn. 2020a. Systems and Methods for Generating Jokes. U.S. Patent No. 10,642,939. Washington, DC: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
