# Can AI Make Us Laugh? Comparing Jokes Generated by Witscript and a Human Expert

**Joe Toplyn^1^, Ori Amir^2^**  
^1^Twenty Lane Media, LLC; ^2^HaHator LLC & Pomona College  
joetoplyn@twentylanemedia.com, oriacadem@gmail.com

## Abstract

Evaluating the effectiveness of a joke-generating AI system ultimately comes down to one question: are its jokes as funny as those crafted by humans? Prior studies have typically relied on numerical ratings assigned by human evaluators—a method with inherent limitations—and few have directly compared the quality of AI-generated jokes to that of jokes created by professional human joke writers. In this study, we measured audience laughter—a direct and fundamental response to jokes—to assess the funniness of jokes produced by a specialized AI joke-writing system. We also compared those jokes to those written by a professional human joke writer to determine which elicited more laughter. Our findings reveal that the AI-generated jokes got as much laughter as the human-crafted ones. This suggests that the best AI joke generators are now capable of composing original, conversational jokes on par with those of a professional human comedy writer.

## 1 Introduction

Generating humor is often regarded as an AI-complete problem, one that requires full human intelligence to solve (Hurley, 2011; Winters, 2021). Generating original humor is even a challenge for humans (Amir, 2022; Tikhonov, 2024), and the brains of professional comedians are distinct functionally and structurally (Amir, 2016; Brawer, 2021). Witscript is one of the few AI systems that can generate contextually integrated jokes, like the jokes a human might improvise in a conversation (Toplyn, 2021b). The last time Witscript was systematically evaluated (Toplyn, 2023), human evaluators judged its responses to input sentences to be jokes 44% of the time. Since then, the Witscript system has been improved. This paper puts the current system to a more challenging test, comparing the funniness of its jokes to the funniness of jokes written by a professional human joke writer.

To determine whether Witscript is as funny as a human expert, a reliable method for evaluating the funniness of jokes is necessary. Goes et al. (2022) use an AI model, but papers on the computational generation of humor almost always evaluate the generated text using non-expert humans recruited on crowdsourcing platforms like Amazon Mechanical Turk (Loakman, 2023). This evaluation method is probably common because it is relatively low-cost and easy to carry out.

Nevertheless, using non-expert humans to rate jokes on a numerical scale has significant limitations (Amin, 2020; Hossain, 2020; Inácio, 2024; Valitutti, 2013). Evidence indicates that non-expert humans cannot appropriately evaluate the quality of creative text (Lamb, 2015). In the case of jokes, this apparent inability to judge quality may arise because jokes are designed to elicit laughter, not high numerical ratings. Indeed, a common definition of "joke" is "something said or done to provoke laughter" (www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/joke). And "voiced laughter is correlated with highly amusing multimedia content" (Petridis, 2009). So, we believe that measuring the laughter elicited by a joke is a better way to measure its funniness.

Laughter is strongly influenced by social context. We laugh the most when we interact with someone in person, instead of via voice or text (Scott, 2014). Therefore, to ensure a stronger laughter signal that can be more accurately measured, a joke should be delivered to a group of people by someone in their presence. Delivering the joke to a group would also help compensate for the fact that evaluating humor is subjective: if a

*Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum), pages 71–78*  
January 19, 2025. ©2025 Association for Computational Linguistics
