joke elicits a big laugh from a group, that means many people thought it was funny and, therefore, that the joke can objectively be assigned a high funniness rating. We decided, then, that the most reliable way to measure the funniness of jokes like those generated by Witscript is to measure how much laughter they elicit when they are delivered by professional standup comics in front of live audiences.

## 2 Related Work

Other authors have tasked human evaluators with comparing the funniness of jokes written by humans to that of jokes generated by AI systems. But those authors used numerical scales, not measurements of laughter, to rate the funniness of the output (Gorenz, 2024; He, 2019; Mittal, 2022; Petrović, 2013; Tikhonov, 2024; Zhang, 2020). To the best of our knowledge, this paper represents the first time that jokes generated by an AI system have been formally evaluated in the context of standup comedy performances.

## 3 Description of the Witscript System

Witscript is a neural-symbolic hybrid AI system designed to work in American English (Toplyn, 2023). It's symbolic because it incorporates joke-writing algorithms created by a human expert (Toplyn, 2014). And it's neural because it executes those algorithms, and other joke-production methods, by calling on a large language model in the GPT family from OpenAI (Brown et al., 2020). The Witscript jokes used in this research were generated by the version of the Witscript app that was publicly available on October 9, 2024, from `www.witscript.com`. The algorithms are based on formulas described in Toplyn (2014) and several patents (Toplyn 2020a, 2020b, 2021a).

## 4 System Evaluation

### 4.1 Input Selection

Author OA selected 16 current news headlines for use in evaluating Witscript. Author JT, a professional comedy writer, eliminated any of those headlines that were strongly associated with events occurring after the knowledge cutoff date of the GPT model used by Witscript. That way, Witscript's performance wouldn't be adversely affected by the system's dependence on non-current training data.

From the remaining news headlines, JT selected eight that, in his expert opinion, had two characteristics that made them particularly well-suited for joke writing: (1) they were likely to capture most people's interest, as good joke topics do (Toplyn, 2014); and (2) they were relatively "evergreen"—likely to seem fresh indefinitely—so jokes based on them wouldn't get stale and unfunny before testing was completed.

Then JT edited each of the eight selected news headlines into a form that he believed, in his expert opinion, would make it a useful joke topic. Each resulting topic had the following characteristics: (1) it was one sentence; (2) it was likely to be easily understood by its intended audience of adult Americans; and (3) it was relatively simple, with only one or two attention-getting elements, which Toplyn (2014) calls "topic handles."

### 4.2 Joke Production

The human expert—a longtime joke writer for a well-known, U.S.-based, late-night comedy/talk show—and Witscript, operated by JT, independently generated jokes based on the eight edited topics. They were given three days to complete the task to the best of their ability, so that the speed of their joke production would not be a factor.

The human expert and JT each selected from all of their own output the one joke for each topic that they believed would elicit the most laughter from an audience of typical American adults. They submitted their eight chosen jokes to a third-party data manager without sharing them with each other. All of Witscript's selected jokes were submitted exactly as they were output by Witscript.

### 4.3 Laughter Measurement

Experienced standup comics performed two comedy sets in front of live audiences in comedy venues in the U.S. The comics did not reveal the sources of the jokes and did not know which jokes had been written by AI. In each set, jokes based on all of the eight topics were performed, with half of the punchlines written by the human expert and half by Witscript. Both the order of the topics and which punchline was selected for each topic were determined randomly and counterbalanced between sets. As a cover story, the comics explained that they would be performing some jokes written by a friend.
