To measure the quantity of laughter elicited by each joke, the recording of each set was labeled to mark the segments in which laughter occurred. The original audio was then converted to a graph of decibels over time using Formula 1.

$$dB = 20 * log10(|s| + 1e^{-6}) \tag{1}$$

In the formula, s is the original sound wave, and $1e^{-6}$ is the lowest sound level perceivable by humans. The area under the curve, representing the "quantity of laughter," was then computed using Simpson’s numerical integration method implemented in Python (Matthews, 2004). We refer to the measure as Total Laughter; its units are decibel-seconds (see Figure 1). We believe this method best captures the quantity of laughter compared to other potential methods such as the average, median, or max, as those other methods would be poor at capturing situations in which different individuals in the audience "get the joke" at different times, resulting in the same amount of laughter spread over a longer period of time.

For the present analysis, we used the audio of two high-quality sets performed at the same North Hollywood venue by the same comedian, Mike Perkins, with audience sizes of 35 and 15. The sets were performed a month apart at the same time of day (at the end of the comedian's 10-minute set opening the 8 p.m. show). Two other sets were excluded from the analysis either because of poor venue quality or small audience size (N<10).

The audio tracks were annotated to select the segments of laughter associated with each joke. In a typical set, sounds unrelated to the laughter, such as heckling, would mix with the laughter. However, these interferences were not an issue in the sets we analyzed. Additionally, comedians might speak over the laughter to make a comment or start the next joke. But in the sets we analyzed, the comedian made an effort to let the audience laugh uninterrupted, though he often did start the next joke when he felt the laughter was dying down. We always ended the laugh segment before the comedian resumed talking, so the audio segment contained laughter only. Importantly, the comedian was not aware which jokes had been written by AI, so any such interference affected all jokes equally.

We compared the performance of Human vs. AI jokes within sets and between sets. The between-sets comparison required some form of normalization of the laughs to remove any bias resulting from the size of the audience or other characteristics affecting the overall loudness of its laughter. That normalization was achieved by:

[Figure: Line graph showing “Laughter (decibels)” over “Time (seconds)” with a shaded area under the curve labeled “Area = 241”.]

Figure 1: A demonstration of how the "Total Laughter" of a single joke is measured. The sound wave of the laughter segment following the joke is converted to dB over time. The area under the curve (here 241) is the Total Laughter in decibel-seconds.

1. Prior to conducting a paired t-test, we compared two joke versions across sets. The Loudness measure of all the jokes within a set was normalized by the median Loudness across all jokes in the set.  
2. For the GLM the Set was included as a regressor of no interest.

### 4.4 The Hypothesis

Historically, the standard for demonstrating that AI had reached a certain milestone against human performance involved only a few data points. For example, Kasparov played only six games with Deep Blue (AI) in 1997 (scoring 2.5-3.5). In 2011, Watson (AI) competed only once against two human champions on *Jeopardy!*, and won. While such events would not meet the nominal standards of statistical significance required to determine that AI was "consistently" better than the human champions, they are nevertheless considered meaningful milestones, since before those events it was considered inconceivable that AI would perform at the level of those human champions even once.

If generating jokes for a comedy/talk show-style monologue, where the quality is judged by
