<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th rowspan="2">Input Modality</th>
<th rowspan="2">Model</th>
<th colspan="2">Laughter Detection</th>
<th colspan="2">Laughter Type Classification</th>
<th colspan="4">Laughter Reasoning</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>F1 (↑)</th>
<th>Acc. (↑)</th>
<th>F1 (↑)</th>
<th>Acc. (↑)</th>
<th>BLEU4 (↑)</th>
<th>METEOR (↑)</th>
<th>ROUGE<sub>L</sub> (↑)</th>
<th>SentBERT (↑)</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2">Audio-Visual LLM</td>
<td>MiniCPM-o-v2.6</td>
<td>0.1952</td>
<td>0.3652</td>
<td>0.1919</td>
<td>0.2362</td>
<td>0.0802</td>
<td>0.1185</td>
<td>0.2632</td>
<td>0.5732</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Qwen2.5-Omni-7B</td>
<td>0.8373</td>
<td>0.8344</td>
<td>0.5856</td>
<td>0.5802</td>
<td>0.1683</td>
<td>0.1919</td>
<td>0.3549</td>
<td>0.7221</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2">Visual LLM</td>
<td>Qwen2.5-VL</td>
<td>0.8586</td>
<td>0.8674</td>
<td>0.6949</td>
<td>0.7402</td>
<td>0.1665</td>
<td>0.1764</td>
<td>0.3284</td>
<td>0.6580</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Video-LLaVA</td>
<td>0.8692</td>
<td>0.8739</td>
<td><u>0.7589</u></td>
<td>0.7912</td>
<td>0.1769</td>
<td>0.1818</td>
<td>0.3419</td>
<td>0.6567</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="3">LLM (Our approach)</td>
<td>Vicuna-v1.5</td>
<td><strong>0.9675</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.9696</strong></td>
<td>0.7460</td>
<td><u>0.7953</u></td>
<td><u>0.2354</u></td>
<td><u>0.2311</u></td>
<td><strong>0.4191</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.7907</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>LLaMA3</td>
<td><u>0.9674</u></td>
<td><strong>0.9696</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.8067</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.8425</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.2427</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.2328</strong></td>
<td><u>0.4168</u></td>
<td><u>0.7828</u></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Qwen2.5</td>
<td>0.9629</td>
<td><u>0.9652</u></td>
<td>0.7094</td>
<td>0.7559</td>
<td>0.2303</td>
<td>0.2238</td>
<td>0.4097</td>
<td>0.7666</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 2: **Quantitative results.** We report the result of SMILE-Next at diverse multimodal LLMs and LLMs. Utilizing our textualized multimodal cues, LLMs can outperform AV-LLMs and V-LLMs which utilizes implicit multimodal cues. Models marked as Our Approach denote LLMs trained with the Laughter-specific Self-Instruction and Mixture-of-Laugh-Experts.

## 4.2 Mixture-of-Laugh-Experts

Instead of training a single model to handle all laughter tasks, we propose the LoRA-based Mixture-of-Laugh-Experts (MoLE) framework which incorporates multiple trainable, lightweight expert modules. This design preserves the original LLM’s reasoning capabilities while enabling task-adaptive expert specialization. Our approach explicitly decouples shared linguistic and reasoning knowledge from task-specific adaptations.

Figure 2 illustrates the MoLE framework. We freeze the pretrained weights $W_0$ of the backbone LLM to preserve its general reasoning knowledge and train only task-specific LoRA expert modules for each task, allowing the model to learn task-adapted behaviors efficiently. Such training strategy ensures versatility across a wide spectrum of task complexities, enabling the model to excel in diverse scenarios ranging from intricate reasoning to granular classification and detection.

For each laughter task $t \in \{t_1, t_2, t_3\}$, we initiate Laugh Expert $E_t$ to each task. Each expert is injected to transformer’s linear layer as an LoRA adapter. Formally, for a linear transformation $W \in \mathbb{R}^{m \times n}$, $x \in \mathbb{R}^n$ represents the input (*i.e.*, the previous hidden state) and $h$ as an output hidden state, LoRA reparameterizes it as

$$
h = Wx = (W_0 + BA)x,
\tag{1}
$$

where $B \in \mathbb{R}^{m \times r}$ and $A \in \mathbb{R}^{r \times n}$.

To incorporate a task-specific expert for laughter understanding, we extend this formulation by introducing a mixture of LoRA experts. The residual adaptation term is replaced by a weighted combination of expert outputs:

$$
h = W_0x + \sum_{i=1}^{T=3} R_i \cdot E_i,
\tag{2}
$$

where $T$ is the number of task-specific experts, $E_i$ is the output of the LoRA-adapted expert module for task $i$, and $R_i \in \mathbb{R}$ is the router gating weight assigned to expert $i$. The router gating weights $R_i$ are computed by first producing a gating weight, then normalized using a softmax function:

$$
R_i = \mathrm{softmax}(W_gx), \quad E_i = B_iA_ix
\tag{3}
$$

where $W_g \in \mathbb{R}^{T \times n}$ denotes learnable parameters and $B_i \in \mathbb{R}^{m \times r}, A_i \in \mathbb{R}^{r \times n}$ as an LoRA adapter. The resulting gating weights satisfy $\sum_{i=1}^{T} R_i = 1$ and enable *soft routing*, allowing each input instance to be adaptively processed by a weighted combination of all experts.

As a result, each Laugh Expert $E_t$ learns task-specific specializations while enabling smooth interpolation across LoRA experts, which facilitates effective knowledge sharing across tasks while preserving task-specific expertise for laughter understanding. Combined with the pretrained LLM’s reasoning capabilities, we build an expert laughter understanding model that balances generalization and specialization.

## 5 Experiments

In this section, we describe the experimental setup and evaluate the performance of our proposed laughter expert LLM on the SMILE-Next dataset. We further present ablation studies to analyze the impact of our design choices.

**Implementation details.** Since our proposed self-instruction and Mixture-of-Laugh-Experts (MoLE) framework are model-agnostic, we evaluate our methods on three text-only LLMs: Vicuna-v1.5-7B (Chiang et al., 2023), LLaMA3 (Grattafiori et al., 2024), and Qwen2.5 (Wang et al., 2024). All models fully utilize the textualized multimodal inputs provided by the SMILE-Next dataset. We integrate the MoLE into all linear layers of each LLM using LoRA adapters. We assign three experts, with the LoRA rank $r$ set to 8 and the scaling
