## A Appendix

### A.1 Additional Explanation of SMILE-Next

In this section, we provide additional statistics and examples of SMILE-Next. First, we provide how our SMILE-Next is constructed, second, we provide how each laughter task is prompted to our laughter-expert LLM.

**Dataset statistics.** SMILE-Next contains three tasks: laughter detection, type classification, and reasoning. Table 1 reports the train/val/test splits per each task. Furthermore, we provide the statistics of (1) Number of utterances (2) Video duration (3) Length of Instruction (4) Length of Answer at Fig. 5. As shown, SMILE-Next covers 2-8 utterances at most, and for video duration, it covers around 30-50 seconds. For length of instruction, since we feed the multimodal cues in textualized form, most samples require 2000-4000 letters, and output answers are mostly around 150-250 letters.

[Figure: Four histogram plots showing SMILE-Next statistics. Top-left: Number of utterances; top-right: Video Duration (sec); bottom-left: Length of input prompt; bottom-right: Length of output answers.]

Figure 5: **SMILE-Next statistics.** We report the number of utterances and the video duration of each video samples in SMILE-Next at top row, which shows similar distribution. At bottom row, we also report the length of input and output text, and as shown input prompt is diverse while the output text shows distribution centered at 200.

**Constructing QA pairs.** Since we formulate each task into question-answering format, we provide the prompts for constructing the instruction dataset for each tasks below.

For laughter detection, we constructed the question instruction as: *"Detection task: You are a laugh detector. Find out if there is laugh in this clip."* And we forced model to respond either *"Yes, there is laugh in this video."* or *"No, there is no laugh in this video."*. For laughter type classification, we constructed the question instruction as: *"Type Classification task: you are to answer the class of laugh type. There are three types: Polite, Satirical, Mirthful. {description of each type}"*, and we forced the answer to be *"The laugh type is [laughter type]"*. For laughter reasoning, we constructed the instruction as: *"Reasoning task: you are to answer why the person laughed at most 30 words, starting with "The audience/person laughed because""*. So the output format is fixed as *"The audience/person laughed because"*, and conducting the reasoning.

### A.2 Detailed Dataset Construction Pipeline

In here, we provide the details of SMILE-Next’s dataset construction pipeline, at each stage (1) Laughter video collection (2) Textual multimodal information extraction (3) Pseudo-label annotation (4) Human verification and annotation.

**Laughter video collection.** We collected the video clips from YouTube ’The Skin Deep’ and ’MovieClips’. The duration of each sources’ video clip is different, because the type of conversation from the source is different. Similar to SMILE (Hyun et al., 2024), we targeted the last laughter happening in the video clip, since the video clip may contain multiple laughs. Also focusing on the ‘laugh happening scene’, we did not annotate ‘who’ laughed. We assumed the laughter happens contagiously in dyadic conversation which makes the other person also laugh, making the whole atmosphere to ‘laughing scene’.

**Textual multimodal information extraction.** We report the off-the-shelf models for extracting multimodal information. For the utterance cue acquisition, we have leveraged WhisperX (Bain et al., 2023) and trimmed a video into multiple segments; one utterance for one segment. For each segments, we also leveraged Active Speaker Algorithm (Tao et al., 2021) using audio-visual information in each video. For the visual cue, we acquired video caption for each segment, which explains each segment’s situation, providing the visual cue. We also extracted the facial action units (Yao et al., 2021) of speakers in the video; Accumulating each frame’s facial action and selected most dominant top-3 facial action units for each person. We extract acoustic features from speech utterances using off-the-shelf speech processing tools (Dehak et al., 2007), including the mean and variance of pitch and intensity, as well as jitter and shimmer. Although we initially explored transforming these numerical features into categorical linguistic descriptors (e.g., labeling a mean pitch above 200 Hz as “high pitch”), we found this approach to be
