# Humor Detection: A Transformer Gets the Last Laugh

**Orion Weller**  
Computer Science Department  
Brigham Young University  
`orionw@byu.edu`

**Kevin Seppi**  
Computer Science Department  
Brigham Young University  
`kseppi@byu.edu`

## Abstract

Much previous work has been done in attempting to identify humor in text. In this paper we extend that capability by proposing a new task: assessing whether or not a joke is humorous. We present a novel way of approaching this problem by building a model that learns to identify humorous jokes based on ratings gleaned from Reddit pages, consisting of almost 16,000 labeled instances. Using these ratings to determine the level of humor, we then employ a Transformer architecture for its advantages in learning from sentence context. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach and show results that are comparable to human performance. We further demonstrate our model’s increased capabilities on humor identification problems, such as the previously created datasets for short jokes and puns. These experiments show that this method outperforms all previous work done on these tasks, with an F-measure of 93.1% for the Puns dataset and 98.6% on the Short Jokes dataset.

## 1 Introduction

Recent advances in natural language processing and neural network architecture have allowed for widespread application of these methods in Text Summarization (Liu et al., 2018), Natural Language Generation (Bahuleyan, 2018), and Text Classification (Yang et al., 2016). Such advances have enabled scientists to study common language practices. One such area, humor, has garnered focus in classification (Zhang and Liu, 2014; Chen and Soo, 2018), generation (He et al., 2019; Valitutti et al., 2013), and in social media (Raz, 2012).

The next question then is, what makes a joke humorous? Although humor is a universal construct, there is a wide variety between what each individual may find humorous. We attempt to focus on a subset of the population where we can quantitatively measure reactions: the popular Reddit r/Jokes thread. This forum is highly popular - with tens of thousands of jokes being posted monthly and over 16 million members. Although larger joke datasets exist, the r/Jokes thread is unparalleled in the amount of rated jokes it contains. To the best of our knowledge there is no comparable source of rated jokes in any other language. These Reddit posts consist of the body of the joke, the punchline, and the number of reactions or *upvotes*. Although this type of humor may only be most enjoyable to a subset of the population, it is an effective way to measure responses to jokes in a large group setting.^1

What enables us to perform such an analysis are the recent improvements in neural network architecture for natural language processing. These breakthroughs started with the Convolutional Neural Network (LeCun et al., 1998) and have recently included the inception (Bahdanau et al., 2015) and progress of the Attention mechanism (Luong et al., 2015; Xu et al., 2015), and the Transformer architecture (Vaswani et al., 2017).

## 2 Related Work

In the related work of joke identification, we find a myriad of methods employed over the years: statistical and N-gram analysis (Taylor and Mazlack, 2004), Regression Trees (Purandare and Litman, 2006), Word2Vec combined with K-NN Human Centric Features (Yang et al., 2015), and Convolutional Neural Networks (Chen and Soo, 2018).

This previous research has gone into many settings where humor takes place. Chen and Soo (2018) studied audience laughter compared to textual transcripts in order to identify jokes in conversation, while much work has also gone into us-

---

^1 See the thread (of varied and not safe for work content) at this link. We do not endorse these jokes.

*Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*  
*and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing, pages 3621–3625,*  
Hong Kong, China, November 3–7, 2019. ©2019 Association for Computational Linguistics
