| Body | Punchline | Score |
|---|---|---|
| Man, I was so tired last night; I had a dream I was a<br>muffler... | and I woke up ex-<br>hausted | 276 |
| I told my teenage niece to go get me a newspaper...<br>She laughed at me, and said, ”Oh uncle you’re so<br>old. Just use my phone.” | So I slammed her<br>phone against the<br>wall to kill a spider. | 28315 |

Table 1: Example format of the Reddit Jokes dataset

ing and creating datasets like the Pun of the Day (Yang et al., 2015), 16000 One-liners (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005), and even Ted Talks (Chen and Soo, 2018).

## 3 Data

We gathered jokes from a variety of sources, each covering a different type of humor. These datasets include jokes of multiple sentences (the Short Jokes dataset), jokes with only one sentence (the Puns dataset), and more mixed jokes (the Reddit dataset). We have made our code and datasets open source for others to use.[^2]

### 3.1 Reddit

Our Reddit data was gathered using Reddit’s public API, collecting the most recent jokes. Every time the scraper ran, it also updated the upvote score of the previously gathered jokes. This data collection occurred every hour through the months of March and April 2019. Since the data was already split into body and punchline sections from Reddit, we created separate datasets containing the body of the joke exclusively and the punchline of the joke exclusively. Additionally, we created a dataset that combined the body and punchline together.

Some sample jokes are shown in Table 1, above. The distribution of joke scores varies wildly, ranging from 0 to 136,354 upvotes. We found that there is a major jump between the 0-200 upvote range and the 200 range and onwards, with only 6% of jokes scoring between 200-20,000. We used this natural divide as the cutoff to decide what qualified as a funny joke, giving us 13884 not-funny jokes and 2025 funny jokes.

### 3.2 Short Jokes

The Short Jokes dataset, found on Kaggle, contains 231,657 short jokes scraped from various joke websites with lengths ranging from 10 to 200 characters. The previous work by Chen and Soo (2018) combined this dataset with the WMT16 English news crawl. Although their exact combined dataset is not publicly available, we used the same method and news crawl source to create a similar dataset. We built this new Short Jokes dataset by extracting sentences from the WMT16 news crawl that had the same distribution of words and characters as the jokes in the Short Jokes dataset on Kaggle[^3]. This was in order to match the two halves (jokes and non-jokes) as closely as possible.

### 3.3 Pun of the Day

This dataset was scraped by Yang et al. (2015) and contains 16001 puns and 16002 not-punny sentences. We gratefully acknowledge their help in putting together and giving us use of this dataset. These puns were constructed from the Pun of the Day website while the negative samples were gathered from news websites.

## 4 Methods

In this section we will discuss the methods and model used in our experiments.

### 4.1 Our Model

We have chosen to use the pre-trained BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) as the base of our model. BERT is a multi-layer bidirectional Transformer encoder and was initially trained on a 3.3 billion word corpus. The model can be fined-tuned with another additional output layer for a multitude of other tasks. We chose to use this Transformer based model as our initial platform because of its success at recognizing and attending to the most important words in both sentence and paragraph structures.

In Figure 1, originally designed by Vaswani et al. (2017), we see the architecture of a Transformer model: the initial input goes up through an encoder, which has two parts: a multi-headed

[^2]: Our code and datasets are publicly available at this link.

[^3]: The Short Jokes dataset from Kaggle is available here.
