interaction to determine, aside from the text of the joke itself, which jokes are humorous. This architecture can predict the level of humor for a specific audience to a higher degree than a general audience consensus. We also showed that this model has increased capability in joke identification as a result, with higher accuracy and F1 scores than previous work on this topic.

## References

Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2015. Neural Machine Translation by Jointly Learning to Align and Translate. *International Conference on Learning Representations*.

Hareesh Bahuleyan. 2018. Natural Language Generation with Neural Variational Models. *arXiv e-prints*, page arXiv:1808.09012.

Peng-Yu Chen and Von-Wun Soo. 2018. Humor recognition using deep learning. *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers)*.

Jakob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. *North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics*.

He He, Nanyun Peng, and Percy Liang. 2019. Pun generation with surprise. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 1734–1744, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yann LeCun, Leon Bottou, Y Bengio, and Patrick Haffner. 1998. Gradient-based learning applied to document recognition. *Proceedings of the IEEE*, 86:2278 – 2324.

Peter J. Liu, Mohammad Saleh, Etienne Pot, Ben Goodrich, Ryan Sepassi, Lukasz Kaiser, and Noam Shazeer. 2018. Generating Wikipedia by Summarizing Long Sequences. *International Conference on Learning Representations*.

Minh-Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D. Manning. 2015. Effective Approaches to Attention-based Neural Machine Translation. *Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages pages 1412 – 1421.

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. Making computers laugh: Investigations in automatic humor recognition. In *Proceedings of the Conference on Human Language Technology and Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, HLT ’05, pages 531–538, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Amruta Purandare and Diane Litman. 2006. Humor: Prosody analysis and automatic recognition for f\*r\*j\*e\*n\*d\*s\*. *Proceedings of the 2006 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 208–215.

Yishay Raz. 2012. Automatic humor classification on twitter. *Proceedings of the 2012 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies: Student Research Workshop*, pages 66–70.

Rupesh Kumar Srivastava, Klaus Greff, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. 2015. Highway Networks. *arXiv e-prints*, page arXiv:1505.00387.

Julia M. Taylor and Lawrence J. Mazlack. 2004. Computationally recognizing wordplay in jokes. In *Proceedings of CogSci 2004*.

Alessandro Valitutti, Hannu Toivonen, Antoine Doucet, and Jukka M Toivanen. 2013. let everything turn well in your wife: Generation of adult humor using lexical constraints. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, volume 2, pages 243–248.

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention Is All You Need. *31st Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems*, pages 17–21.

Kelvin Xu, Jimmy Ba, Ryan Kiros, Kyunghyun Cho, Aaron Courville, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Richard Zemel, and Yoshua Bengio. 2015. Show, Attend and Tell: Neural Image Caption Generation with Visual Attention. *arXiv e-prints*, page arXiv:1502.03044.

Diyi Yang, Alon Lavie, Chris Dyer, and Eduard Hovy. 2015. Humor recognition and humor anchor extraction. *Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 2367–2376.

Zichao Yang, Diyi Yang, Chris Dyer, Xiaodong He, Alexander J. Smola, and Eduard H. Hovy. 2016. Hierarchical attention networks for document classification. *HLT-NAACL*.

Renxian Zhang and Naishi Liu. 2014. Recognizing humor on twitter. In *Proceedings of the 23rd ACM International Conference on Conference on Information and Knowledge Management*, CIKM ’14, pages 889–898, New York, NY, USA. ACM.
