| Previous Work: | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Word2Vec+HCF | 0.797 | 0.776 | 0.836 | 0.705 |
| CNN | 0.867 | 0.880 | 0.859 | 0.869 |
| CNN+F | 0.892 | 0.886 | 0.907 | 0.896 |
| CNN+HN | 0.892 | 0.889 | 0.903 | 0.896 |
| CNN+F+HN | 0.894 | 0.866 | **0.940** | 0.901 |

| Our Methods: | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Transformer | **0.930** | **0.930** | 0.931 | **0.931** |

Table 3: Comparison of Methods on Pun of the Day Dataset. $HCF$ represents Human Centric Features, $F$ for increasing the number of filters, and $HN$ for the use of highway layers in the model. See (Chen and Soo, 2018; Yang et al., 2015) for more details regarding these acronyms.

the body of the joke exclusively, the punchline exclusively, and both parts together (labeled *full* in our table). On the full dataset we found that the Transformer achieved an accuracy of 72.4 percent on the hold out test set, while the CNN was in the high 60’s. We also note that the general human classification found 66.3% of the jokes to be humorous.

In order to understand what may be happening in the model, we used the body and punchline only datasets to see what part of the joke was most important for humor. We found that all of the models, including humans, relied more on the punchline of the joke in their predictions (Table 2). Thus, it seems that although both parts of the joke are needed for it to be humorous, the punchline carries higher weight than the body. We hypothesize that this is due to the variations found in the different joke bodies: some take paragraphs to set up the joke, while others are less than a sentence.

Our experiment with the Short Jokes dataset found the Transformer model’s accuracy and F1 score to be 0.986. This was a jump of 8 percent from the most recent work done with CNNs (Table 4).

| Method | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| CNN+F+HN | 0.906 | 0.902 | 0.946 | 0.924 |
| Transformer | **0.986** | 0.986 | 0.986 | 0.986 |

Table 4: Results on Short Jokes Identification

The results on the Pun of the Day dataset are shown in Table 3 above. It shows an accuracy of 93 percent, close to 4 percent greater accuracy than the best CNN model proposed. Although the CNN model used a variety of techniques to extract the best features from the dataset, we see that the self-attention layers found even greater success in pulling out the crucial features.

## 6 Discussion

Considering that a joke’s humor value is subjective, the results on the Reddit dataset are surprising. The model has used the context of the words to determine, with high probability, what an average Reddit r/Jokes viewer will find humorous. When we look at the general population’s opinion as well, we find a stark difference between their preferences and those of the Reddit users (Table 2). We would hypothesize that our model is learning the specific type of humor enjoyed by those who use the Reddit r/Jokes forum. This would suggest that humor can be learned for a specific subset of the population.

The model’s high accuracy and F1 scores on the Short Jokes and Pun of the Day dataset show the effectiveness of the model for transfer learning. This result is not terribly surprising. If the model can figure out which jokes are funny, it seems to be an easier task to tell when something isn’t a joke at all.

Although these results have high potential, defining the absolute truth value for a joke’s humor is a challenging, if not impossible task. However, these results indicate that, at least for a subset of the population, we can find and identify jokes that will be most humorous to them.

## 7 Conclusion

In this paper, we showed a method to define the measure of a joke’s humor. We explored the idea of using machine learning tools, specifically a Transformer neural network architecture, to discern what jokes are funny and what jokes are not. This proposed model does not require any human
