*approaches (e.g., multi-agent debate [68], test-time compute scaling [69]) to further improve model performance.*

Another common error is **hallucination and incorrect association**. This is evident in sample 3. The original comic contrasts latte art before and after lidding the drink, but Claude-3 incorrectly associates the narrative with environmental protection, focusing on the plastic lid. Meanwhile, LLaVA-1.6 13B model suffers from hallucinations by interpreting the narrative as being about relaxation and enjoyment, which is unsupported by the original comic. *This suggests the need for improving world knowledge and social understanding abilities to enhance model performance on this task.* More sample outputs are in Appendix C.

## 7 Conclusion

In this work, we present YESBUT, the first benchmark dedicated to studying comic understanding through juxtaposition. YESBUT encompasses a variety of tasks that address both narrative comprehension and deep reasoning. The results indicate that state-of-the-art vision and language models still struggle with these tasks. We also offer a comprehensive analysis and discussion of errors to evaluate model performance. Current models still struggle to accurately interpret the visual contents and conduct in-depth reasoning of the underlying narratives. Through this study, we aim to provide insights for future research and advance the capabilities of AI models in understanding human context, ultimately contributing to more effective and culturally aware AI applications.

## 8 Limitations

We propose a comprehensive data annotation process to annotate each component. However, due to the subjectivity of comic interpretation, especially regarding the underlying ideas, there might be potential ambiguity. While we acknowledge the relatively small size of images, we rigorously collect comics and annotate each component, ensuring their high-quality and reliability. We plan to expand the dataset with the inclusion of different types of narratives in future work.

Our proposed benchmark focuses predominantly on recognizing and interpreting visual humor via juxtaposition, and may not cover all aspects of visual understanding required for more generalized AI applications. In the future, we intend to explore more deeply how AI can not only interpret but also creatively engage with content. This includes generating pivotal turning points from one perspective and creating counterpoints to given scenarios, like generating a "YES" image’s counterpart.

## 9 Ethics Statement

**Copyright and License.** All data samples collected are sourced from publicly available content on social media platforms. We ensure compliance with copyright by utilizing original links to comics without infringement. In addition, we obtained permission from the author artist (e.g., Anton Gudim, Liz Climo) to conduct our benchmark using these public images. Additionally, we commit to open-sourcing our annotated benchmark, providing corresponding links to each comic image. We diligently review samples, filtering out potentially offensive or harmful content.

**The Large Vision Language Models** utilized in our experiments are pretrained using diverse web corpora, which may introduce biases in their outputs. We advise users to conscientiously evaluate the ethical implications of generated outputs when employing them in future research endeavors.

**Data Annotation.** Eight human judges are engaged in our annotation process. We compensate these judges with an average hourly wage of $11, ensuring fair remuneration for their contributions.

## Acknowledgements

This work made use of the High Performance Computing Resource in the Core Facility for Advanced Research Computing at Case Western Reserve University, which is supported by NSF award NSF-2117439. We also thank the support from OpenAI Researcher Access grants #0000007745.
