---

**Prompts for Literal Description:**

- Candidate literal description: gen  
- Reference literal description: ref

Task: You need to determine how accurately the above candidate literal description matches the given reference literal description of a comic narrative.

Using a scale from 1 to 5, rate the accuracy with which the candidate description matches the reference description, with 1 being the least accurate and 5 being the most accurate.

Please directly output a score by strictly following this format: [[score]], for example: Rating: [[3]].

---

**Prompts for Contradiction:**

Background: You are an impartial judge. You will be given a literal description of a comic that presents the same situation from two opposing perspectives, highlighting contradictions. You will also be provided with a gold-standard illustration as reference that effectively demonstrates these narrative contradictions.

Your task is to evaluate the quality of a generated illustration and determine whether it accurately depicts the narrative contradictions in the comic. Then, assign a score on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is the lowest and 5 is the highest, based on its quality.

- The literal description of the comic:description  
- The reference contradiction illustration:ref  
- The generated contradiction illustration:gen

Please directly output a score by strictly following this format: [[score]], for example: Rating: [[3]].

---

Figure 9: Prompts for GPT based evaluations.

### B.4 Human Evaluation Details

We present 30 random samples on each task for human evaluation. We anonymize the models and shuffle the outputs to the annotators. Following [44], we include the following aspects:

- **Correctness:** Does the model output correctly convey the narrative of the comic?
- **Completeness:** Does the model output cover all the important elements of the comic narrative?
- **Faithfulness:** Can all contents from the model output be supported by the comic image (i.e., there are no hallucinations)?

For Literal description, we evaluate on all three aspects. For contradiction, we evaluate on Correctness and Faithfulness.

## C More Sample Outputs

Here, we present more randomly picked sample outputs on literal description and contradiction generation in Figure 10, Figure 11, and Figure 12.
