[36] Arjun Chandrasekaran, Ashwin K Vijayakumar, Stanislaw Antol, Mohit Bansal, Dhruv Batra, C Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh. We are humor beings: Understanding and predicting visual humor. In *Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*, pages 4603–4612, 2016.

[37] Dafna Shahaf, Eric Horvitz, and Robert Mankoff. Inside jokes: Identifying humorous cartoon captions. In *Proceedings of the 21th ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining*, pages 1065–1074, 2015.

[38] Dragomir Radev, Amanda Stent, Joel Tetreault, Aasish Pappu, Aikaterini Iliakopoulou, Agustin Chanfreau, Paloma de Juan, Jordi Vallmitjana, Alejandro Jaimes, Rahul Jha, et al. Humor in collective discourse: Unsupervised funniness detection in the new yorker cartoon caption contest. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.08126*, 2015.

[39] Yuta Kayatani, Zekun Yang, Mayu Otani, Noa Garcia, Chenhui Chu, Yuta Nakashima, and Haruo Takemura. The laughing machine: Predicting humor in video. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision*, pages 2073–2082, 2021.

[40] Yang Liu, Tongfei Shen, Dong Zhang, Qingying Sun, Shoushan Li, and Guodong Zhou. Comment-aided video-language alignment via contrastive pre-training for short-form video humor detection. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.09055*, 2024.

[41] Sophie Jentzsch and Kristian Kersting. Chatgpt is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04563*, 2023.

[42] Nicola De Pisapia, Francesca Bacci, Danielle Parrott, and David Melcher. Brain networks for visual creativity: a functional connectivity study of planning a visual artwork. *Scientific reports*, 6(1):39185, 2016.

[43] Mika Koivisto and Simone Grassini. Best humans still outperform artificial intelligence in a creative divergent thinking task. *Scientific reports*, 13(1):13601, 2023.

[44] EunJeong Hwang and Vered Shwartz. MemeCap: A dataset for captioning and interpreting memes. In Houda Bouamor, Juan Pino, and Kalika Bali, editors, *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 1433–1445, Singapore, December 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics.

[45] Dragomir Radev, Amanda Stent, Joel Tetreault, Aasish Pappu, Aikaterini Iliakopoulou, Agustin Chanfreau, Paloma de Juan, Jordi Vallmitjana, Alejandro Jaimes, Rahul Jha, and Robert Mankoff. Humor in collective discourse: Unsupervised funniness detection in the new yorker cartoon caption contest. In Nicoletta Calzolari, Khalid Choukri, Thierry Declerck, Sara Goggi, Marko Grobelnik, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mariani, Helene Mazo, Asuncion Moreno, Jan Odijk, and Stelios Piperidis, editors, *Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’16)*, pages 475–479, Portorož, Slovenia, May 2016. European Language Resources Association (ELRA).

[46] Yuqing Wang and Yun Zhao. Gemini in reasoning: Unveiling commonsense in multimodal large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.17661*, 2023.

[47] Rowan Zellers, Yonatan Bisk, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi. From recognition to cognition: Visual commonsense reasoning. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*, pages 6720–6731, 2019.

[48] Drew A Hudson and Christopher D Manning. Gqa: A new dataset for real-world visual reasoning and compositional question answering. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*, pages 6700–6709, 2019.

[49] Tristan Thrush, Ryan Jiang, Max Bartolo, Amanpreet Singh, Adina Williams, Douwe Kiela, and Candace Ross. Winoground: Probing vision and language models for visio-linguistic compositionality. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*, pages 5238–5248, 2022.
