[Figure: Pie chart of comic topic clusters with labels and percentages: Gender Perspectives 12.7%, Animals and Nature 10.7%, Effort and Simplicity 9.8%, Digital Interfaces 8.4%, Pets 7.8%, Road and Transportation 6.9%, Rest and Dreams 6.6%, Health and Fitness 6.1%, Gifts and Romance 5.5%, Urban Life and Humor 4.9%, Diet and Control 4.9%, Technology and Toys 4.3%, Global Views 4.3%, Daily Habits 4.0%, Social Roles and Identity 3.2%.]

Figure 8: The clusters of comic topics covered by our benchmark.

## B Experimental Details

### B.1 Model Details

We include both commercial and open-sourced VLMs and LLMs in our experiments. For GPT-4, we use *gpt-4-vision-preview* version, and for ChatGPT we employ the *gpt-3.5-turbo-0125* model variant<sup>5</sup>. For Claude-3, we leverage the Claude 3 Opus model updated on 29th Feb, 2024<sup>6</sup>. For open-sourced models, we include LLaVA1.6 (34B, 13B and 7B) [54], LLaVA1.5 13B [3], InstrctBlip 13B and 7B variants [58], CogVLM [55], Qwen-VL [56], and mPLUG-Owl2 [57]. For LLMs, we use the Llama3 instruction variant [20], and the Mistral 7B instruction model [59].

### B.2 Implementation Details

All commercial models are accessed through their official API. For open-sourced models, we implement the experiments using Hugging Face Transformers<sup>7</sup>. For GPT-4, Claude-3 and ChatGPT, we setting temperature as 1.0. For other models, we apply the default parameter setting or greedy decoding during inference. The experiments are conducted on NVIDIA 4090 and A6000 GPUs.

For MCQ evaluation, we explicitly instruct the model to directly output the option in prompts, and use hard rules to parse the answer. If none of the options can be parsed, we will assign it a random option. For generation task evaluation, we apply rouge-score<sup>8</sup> to compute ROUGE score, and calculate the BERT score using the official implementation<sup>9</sup>. For GPT based evaluations for literal description and contradiction, we use gpt-3.5-turbo-0125 version. The prompts we used are shown in Figure 9.

### B.3 Experiment Prompts

To reduce the biases from different prompts, we design three different prompts by different people to evaluate models and report the average results for all tasks. We present the prompts used for Literal Description (Figure 13), Contradiction Generation (Figure 14), Underlying Philosophy Selection (Figure 15), and Title Matching (Figure 16).

<sup>5</sup>https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/  
<sup>6</sup>https://www.anthropic.com/api  
<sup>7</sup>https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/en/index  
<sup>8</sup>https://pypi.org/project/rouge-score/  
<sup>9</sup>https://github.com/Tiiiger/bert_score
