After the cross-verification process, one of the authors reviews each sample to verify the validity and appropriateness of the components. Finally, we obtain a dataset of 348 comics, each accompanied by high-quality components. The statistics of the components are shown in Table 1.

| Components | #Num | Avg. Len. |
|---|---:|---:|
| Image | 348 | |
| Literal Description | 348 | 80 |
| Contradiction | 348 | 31 |
| Philosophy | 1,392 | 24 |
| Title | 1,392 | 6 |

Table 1: Data Statistics. Avg. Len. is the average number of words.

**Mitigating Annotation Bias.** Our benchmark focuses on *common interpretation* of humor. However, the subjectivity of this task may introduce bias. To mitigate this issue, we have taken several steps in our annotation process: (1) Our annotators come from different genders and diverse cultural backgrounds, providing a range of perspectives; (2) Multiple quality checks and verifications are incorporated to ensure consensus among different annotators, with controversial or potentially biased comics being filtered out; (3) Annotations are further validated by cross-referencing social media comments for each comic to ensure alignment with widely accepted interpretations; (4) Recognizing that tasks such as generating titles and philosophical contents are inherently open-ended and involve subjective data annotation, we frame them as selection tasks, and ensure that the correct option is clearly and objectively superior than the negative options to mitigate subjectivity.

### 3.3 Task Design: Do Large Models Understand Humor in Juxtaposition?

We aim to evaluate the capabilities of recent large (visual) language models in understanding humor through contradictions. This is challenging because it requires both social reasoning about human events and nonlinear logical reasoning about the narratives, going beyond the literal understanding of the comic. We design a series of tasks that require different levels of narrative understanding and reasoning abilities to evaluate the models’ performance in reading comics.

**1. Literal Description Writing.** The first task is to generate the literal description of the comic narrative. We formulated this task as a text generation task: given an input comic, the model is required to generate a short description illustrating the narrative from the two panels of the comic. This task is different from the traditional image captioning, which requires the model to illustrate the comic narrative instead of solely focusing on image description.

**2. Contradiction Generation** evaluates whether the model can understand the contradiction within the narrative juxtaposition. Similarly, it is formulated as a text generation task.

**3. Underlying Philosophy Selection.** Understanding comics requires grasping not only the surface meaning of the images but also the underlying ideas the authors aim to convey. This task evaluates the model’s ability to recognize the comic’s underlying philosophy. It is formulated as a multiple-choice question answering (MCQ) task: given an input comic and four candidates of its underlying philosophy, the model must predict the correct option. The negative choices are crafted by annotators to be relevant to the comic, requiring reasoning to make the correct prediction.

**4. Title Matching** evaluates whether the models can identify the corresponding title, which is challenging because the title acts as an abstraction of the narrative and requires a proper understanding of the comic’s content. Similar to the underlying philosophy task, it is formulated as a multiple-choice question answering task, where the model is asked to select the correct title from four options.

## 4 Experiments

### 4.1 Models and Settings

We evaluate the models’ performance in a zero-shot manner using both recent VLMs and LLMs. For VLMs, the comic image and questions are provided as inputs for output prediction. We include both commercial models such as GPT-4 [52] and Claude-3[53], as well as open-sourced models including LLaVa [3, 54], CogVLM [55], Qwen-VL [56], mPLUG-Owl2 [57], and InstructBLIP [58].

For LLMs, since they cannot directly process images, we use the LLaVa-1.6 13B model generated literal descriptions as inputs due to its strong performance. We include ChatGPT, the Llama3 instruction model [20], and the Mistral 7B instruction model [59]. More details of the models are included in Appendix B.
