## References

[1] Jessica Pressman. *Digital modernism: Making it new in new media.* Oxford University Press, USA, 2014.

[2] Alan D Manning. Understanding comics: The invisible art. 1998.

[3] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Yuheng Li, and Yong Jae Lee. Improved baselines with visual instruction tuning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.03744*, 2023.

[4] Shukang Yin, Chaoyou Fu, Sirui Zhao, Ke Li, Xing Sun, Tong Xu, and Enhong Chen. A survey on multimodal large language models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.13549*, 2023.

[5] Jiayang Wu, Wensheng Gan, Zefeng Chen, Shicheng Wan, and S Yu Philip. Multimodal large language models: A survey. In *2023 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (BigData)*, pages 2247–2256. IEEE, 2023.

[6] Zhiting Hu and Tianmin Shu. Language models, agent models, and world models: The law for machine reasoning and planning. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.05230*, 2023.

[7] Jack Hessel, Ana Marasović, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. In Anna Rogers, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Naoaki Okazaki, editors, *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 688–714, Toronto, Canada, July 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics.

[8] Abu Rayhan, Rajan Rayhan, and Swajan Rayhan. Artificial general intelligence: Roadmap to achieving human-level capabilities, 2023.

[9] Randy Duncan and Matthew J Smith. *The power of comics: History, form and culture.* A&C Black, 2009.

[10] Yixin Yang, Zheng Li, Qingxiu Dong, Heming Xia, and Zhifang Sui. Can large multimodal models uncover deep semantics behind images? *arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.11281*, 2024.

[11] James O Young. *Art and knowledge.* Routledge, 2003.

[12] Thierry Groensteen. *Comics and narration.* Univ. Press of Mississippi, 2013.

[13] Eve Bearne. Rethinking literacy: Communication, representation and text. *Reading*, 37(3):98–103, 2003.

[14] Jason Dittmer. Comic book visualities: a methodological manifesto on geography, montage and narration. *Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers*, 35(2):222–236, 2010.

[15] Joshua Schechter. Juxtaposition: A new way to combine logics. *The Review of Symbolic Logic*, 4(4):560–606, 2011.

[16] Paul J Kuttner, Marcus B Weaver-Hightower, and Nick Sousanis. Comics-based research: The affordances of comics for research across disciplines. *Qualitative Research*, 21(2):195–214, 2021.

[17] Yongqi Tong, Yifan Wang, Dawei Li, Sizhe Wang, Zi Lin, Simeng Han, and Jingbo Shang. Eliminating reasoning via inferring with planning: A new framework to guide llms’ non-linear thinking. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.12342*, 2023.

[18] Sébastien Bubeck, Varun Chandrasekaran, Ronen Eldan, Johannes Gehrke, Eric Horvitz, Ece Kamar, Peter Lee, Yin Tat Lee, Yuanzhi Li, Scott Lundberg, et al. Sparks of artificial general intelligence: Early experiments with gpt-4. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.12712*, 2023.

[19] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback. *Advances in neural information processing systems*, 35:27730–27744, 2022.
