words in the headline. They use BERT embeddings and compute feature vectors based on the global attention between contextual words and the replaced (and replacement) word. These two vectors and the vectors of the replaced and replacement are combined, and the resulting vector is passed through a multi-layer perceptron to estimate the headline’s funniness.

### 5.6 Other Notable Approaches

ECNU used sentiment and humor lexicons, respectively, to extract polarities and humor rating features of headlines. They also used the average, minimum and maximum humor ratings of replaced/replacement words from the training set as additional features.

LT3 (Vanroy et al., 2020) created an entirely feature-engineered baseline which obtained an RMSE of 0.572. It uses lexical, entity, readability, length, positional, word embedding similarity, perplexity and string similarity features.

IRLab_DAIICT trained five BERT classifiers, one for each of the five ratings for a headline, and calculated the mean of the five classifiers’ outputs. This mean was further averaged with the output of a BERT regression model which predicts the overall mean rating.

Buhscitu (Jensen et al., 2020) used knowledge bases (e.g. WordNet), a language model and hand-crafted features (e.g. phoneme level distances). Their neural model combines feature, knowledge and word (replaced/replacement) encoders.

Hasyarasa (Desetty et al., 2020) used a word embedding and knowledge graph based approach to build a contextual neighborhood of words to exploit entity interrelationships and to capture contextual absurdity. Features from this and semantic distance based features are finally combined with headline representations from a Bi-LSTM.

UTFPR (Paetzold, 2020) is a minimalist unsupervised approach that uses word co-occurrence features derived from news and EU parliament transcripts to capture unexpectedness.

| Rank | Team | Accuracy | Reward |
|---:|---|---:|---:|
| 1 | Hitachi | 0.6743 | 0.2988 |
| 2 | Amobee | 0.6606 | 0.2766 |
| 3 | YNU-HPCC | 0.6591 | 0.2783 |
| **bench.** | **RoBERTa** | **0.6495** | **0.2541** |
| 4 | LML | 0.6469 | 0.2601 |
| 5 | XSYSIGMA | 0.6446 | 0.2541 |
| 6 | ECNU | 0.6438 | 0.2508 |
| 7 | Fermi | 0.6393 | 0.2438 |
| **bench.** | **BERT** | **0.6355** | **0.2345** |
| 8 | zcxchen | 0.6347 | 0.2399 |
| 9 | Duluth | 0.6320 | 0.2429 |
| 10 | WMD | 0.6294 | 0.2291 |
| 11 | Buhscitu | 0.6271 | 0.2190 |
| 12 | MLEngineer | 0.6229 | 0.2046 |
| 13 | LRG | 0.6218 | 0.2077 |
| 14 | UniTuebingenCL | 0.6183 | 0.2110 |
| 15 | O698 | 0.6134 | 0.1954 |
| 16 | JUST_Farah | 0.6088 | 0.1841 |
| **bench.** | **CBOW** | **0.6057** | **0.1878** |
| 17 | INGEOTEC | 0.6050 | 0.1779 |
| 18 | Ferryman | 0.6027 | 0.1771 |
| 19 | UPB | 0.6001 | 0.1772 |
| 20 | Hasyarasa | 0.5970 | 0.1673 |
| 21 | JokeMeter | 0.5776 | 0.1487 |
| 22 | UTFPR | 0.5696 | 0.1181 |
| 23 | Smash | 0.5426 | 0.0747 |
| 24 | SSN_NLP | 0.5377 | 0.0622 |
| 25 | WUY | 0.5320 | 0.1113 |
| 26 | uir | 0.5213 | 0.0567 |
| 27 | KdeHumor | 0.5190 | 0.0272 |
| 28 | Titowak | 0.5038 | -0.0021 |
| **bench.** | **BASELINE** | **0.4950** | **-0.0196** |
| 29 | heidy | 0.4197 | -0.0995 |
| 30 | SO | 0.3291 | -0.2064 |
| 31 | HumorAAC | 0.3204 | -0.2177 |

Table 5: Official results and benchmarks for Subtask 2.

Some noteworthy pre-processing techniques included non-word symbol removal, word segmentation, manually removing common text extensions in headlines (e.g. “– live updates”). Finally, notable datasets used were the iWeb corpus[^5] and a news headline corpus[^6].

### 5.7 General Trends

Here we discuss the relative merits of the different systems, with respect to the participants’ findings.

Table 3 suggests that contextual information is useful in our humor recognition tasks, since the context independent GloVe embeddings (CBOW) led to weaker performance compared to using the context-sensitive BERT and RoBERTa embeddings.

According to ablation experiments by Hitachi (Morishita et al., 2020), the ranking of best performing to least superior individual PLM are as follows: RoBERTa, GPT-2, BERT, XLM, XLNet and Transformer-XL.

[^5]: https://www.english-corpora.org/iweb/  
[^6]: https://www.kaggle.com/snapcrack/all-the-news
