| Task | Type | Metric | Train | FunLines (Train) | Dev | Test |
|---|---|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Subtask 1 | Regression | RMSE | 9,653 | 8,248 | 2,420 | 3,025 |
| Subtask 2 | Classification | Accuracy | 9,382 | 1,959 | 2,356 | 2,961 |

Table 2: Summary of the subtasks and their datasets.

For our task, we randomly sampled the Humicroedit dataset into train (64%), dev (16%) and test (20%) sets such that all edited versions of an original headline reside in exactly one of these sets, as opposed to the sampling in Hossain et al. (2019) which allowed overlap of original versions of headlines among its dataset partitions for a slightly different humorous headline classification task.

We also provided additional training data[^3] from **FunLines**[^4] (Hossain et al., 2020), a competition that we hosted to collect humorous headlines at a very low cost. The data collection approach for Humicroedit and FunLines are mostly similar, but FunLines additionally includes headlines from the news categories sports, entertainment and technology, and its headlines were published between 05/2019 and 01/2020, for a total of 8,248 annotated headlines. More than 40% of the participating teams, including the winning team, made use of the FunLines data.

## 3 Task Description

The objective of this shared task is to build systems for rating a humorous effect that is caused by small changes in text. To this end, we focus on humor obtained by applying micro-edits to news headlines.

Editing headlines presents a unique opportunity for humor research since headlines convey substantial information using only a few words. This creates a rich background against which a micro-edit can lead to a humorous effect. With that data, a computational humor model can focus on the exact localized cause of the humorous effect in a short textual context.

We split our task into two subtasks. The dataset statistics for these subtasks are shown in Table 2.

### 3.1 Subtask 1: Funniness Regression

In this task, given the original and the edited versions of a headline, the participant has to estimate the mean funniness of the edited headline on the 0-3 humor scale. Systems tackling this task can be useful in a humor generation scenario where generated candidates are ranked according to expected funniness.

### 3.2 Subtask 2: Funnier of the Two

In this task, given the original headline and two of its edited versions, the participating system has to predict which edited version is the funnier of the two. Consequently, by looking at gaps between the funniness ratings, we can begin to understand the minimal discernible difference between funny headlines.

## 4 Evaluation

### 4.1 Metrics

For Subtask 1, systems are ranked using the root mean squared error (RMSE) between the mean of the five annotators’ funniness ratings and the rating estimated by the system for the headlines. Given $N$ test samples, and given the ground truth funniness $y_i$ and the predicted funniness $\hat{y}_i$ for the $i$-th sample:

$$
RMSE = \sqrt{\frac{\sum_{i=1}^{N}(y_i - \hat{y}_i)^2}{N}}
$$

For Subtask 2, which attempts to find the funnier of the two modified versions of a headline, the evaluation metric is classification accuracy. We also report another auxiliary metric called the reward. Given $N$ test samples with $C$ correct predictions, and given the $i$-th sample, the funniness ratings of its two edited headlines $f_i^{(1)}$ and $f_i^{(2)}$, its ground truth label $y_i$ and its predicted label $\hat{y}_i$:

[^3]: FunLines dataset: `https://cs.rochester.edu/u/nhossain/funlines.html`  
[^4]: FunLines game website: `https://funlines.co`
