Shuning Jin, Yue Yin, Xiane Tang, and Ted Pedersen. 2020. Duluth at SemEval-2020 task 7: Using surprise as a key to unlock humorous headlines. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*

Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, Piotr Bojanowski, and Tomas Mikolov. 2017. Bag of tricks for efficient text classification. In *Proceedings of the 15th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Volume 2, Short Papers*, pages 427–431, Valencia, Spain, April. Association for Computational Linguistics.

S Kayalvizhi, D Thenmozhi, and Aravindan Chandrabose. 2020. SSN_NLP at SemEval-2020 task 7: Detecting funniness level using traditional learning with sentence embeddings. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*

Enas Khwaileh and Muntaha Al-as’ad. 2020. ELMo-NB at SemEval-2020 task 7: Assessing sense of humor in edited news headlines using ELMo and NB. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*

Chloe Kiddon and Yuriy Brun. 2011. That’s what she said: double entendre identification. In *Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies: short papers-Volume 2*, pages 89–94. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. RoBERTa: A robustly optimized bert pretraining approach. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692.*

Xuefeng Luo and Kuan Tang. 2020. funny3 at SemEval-2020 task 7: Humor detection of edited headlines with LSTM and TFIDF neural network system. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*

Jian Ma, Shu-Yi Xie, Mei-Zhi Jin, Lian-Xin Jiang, Yang Mo, and Jian-Ping Shen. 2020. XSYSIGMA at SemEval-2020 task 7: Method for predicting headlines humor based on auxiliary sentences with El-Bert. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*

Siddhant Mahurkar and Rajaswa Patil. 2020. LRG at SemEval-2020 task 7: Assessing the ability of BERT and derivative models to perform short-edits based humor grading. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*

J.A. Meaney, Steven R. Wilson, and Walid Magdy. 2020. Smash at SemEval-2020 task 7: Optimizing the hyperparameters of ERNIE 2.0 for humor ranking and rating. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. Making computers laugh: Investigations in automatic humor recognition. In *Proceedings of Human Language Technology Conference and Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 531–538, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, October. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Greg S Corrado, and Jeff Dean. 2013. Distributed representations of words and phrases and their compositionality. In *Advances in neural information processing systems*, pages 3111–3119.

Tristan Miller, Christian Hempelmann, and Iryna Gurevych. 2017. SemEval-2017 task 7: Detection and interpretation of English puns. In *Proceedings of the 11th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2017)*, pages 58–68, Vancouver, Canada, August. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Rida Miraj and Masaki Aono. 2020. KdeHumor at SemEval-2020 task 7: A neural network model for detecting funniness in dataset humicroedit. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*

Terufumi Morishita, Gaku Morio, Hiroaki Ozaki, and Toshinori Miyoshi. 2020. Hitachi at SemEval-2020 task 7: Stacking at scale with heterogeneous language models for humor recognition. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*

John Morreall. 2016. Philosophy of humor. In Edward N. Zalta, editor, *The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy*. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, winter 2016 edition.

Gustavo H. Paetzold. 2020. UTFPR at SemEval-2020 task 7: Using co-occurrence frequencies to capture unexpectedness. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020).*
