- **C4:** This was one of the examples with the smallest funniness differences which was misclassified by all systems. Both its headlines are quite funny and they are similar as they both discuss cleaning spaces. However, all systems found bedroom cleaning as a funnier reference than floor cleaning, likely because floor cleaning occurs much more frequently in our day-to-day conversations, making bedroom cleaning a more incongruous substitution to the classifiers, as indicated by the semantic distances in Table 6.

## 6.3 Quirks of the Dataset

It is challenging to effectively construct a dataset that depends on human creativity, such as humor. Not only generating high quality humor requires more effort from humans making the process expensive, but also reliably assessing the level of humor is challenging as humor understanding is subjective.

Although we carefully annotated our dataset, we have observed some quirks. Some of our headlines showed lack of sufficient agreement between judges. For example, in the headline **C2** in Table 6, the standard deviation in judges’ ratings for the “puppies” version ($\sigma$ = 0.9) was much higher than that in the “pennies” version ($\sigma$ = 0.4), implying that using more judges for the “puppies” version could have given it a more reliable funniness rating. However, ensuring such quality control would make the data collection process more expensive.

Additionally, some participating teams reported the frequent mention of President Trump in the dataset, and that there were a non-trivial number of headlines that mentioned both “Trump” and “hair”, and these headlines had received high humor scores, adding certain biases on the data.

Although the FunLines training data was useful, it was annotated using a different set of judges. It is reasonable to expect that the rating scales of FunLines and our task dataset are not calibrated, and a proper calibration could have possibly increased the value of the FunLines data. However, we have not seen any participating system trying to address this problem, for example, by using a standardization technique to unify the two funniness scales.

# 7 Conclusion and Future Perspectives

We provided 15,095 edited and humor-rated, potentially funny headlines and defined subtasks for (1) rating the funniness of each one and (2) determining the funnier headline from a pair that came from editing the same original headline. Both humor subtasks were popular, attracting 48 and 31 teams respectively, showing that shared tasks can unify the relatively smaller humor research community.

For both subtasks, the highly rated solutions show that pre-trained language models work well for rating the humor. For Subtask 2, nearly all the participating teams used their solution from Subtask 1 for ranking the two headlines. For Subtask 2, we found that larger disparities in ground truth funniness made ranking easier and that incongruity in a headline was positively correlated with more accurate ranking of humor. For Subtask 1, we discovered that, over the range of funniness scores, the top systems were most accurate at rating humor near the middle of the funniness range where we had the most training data.

For future contests like this, we advocate for more uniformly labeled humor data, though that can be hard and expensive to collect. Another direction worth pursuing is humor recognition in a closed setting such as reading comprehension, where both annotators and systems make judgments based only on a limited amount of provided contextual information. This would constrain the problem, setting a well-defined scope, and potentially lead to stronger annotator agreements.

We also believe that focusing on specific labeled forms of humor, such as incongruity, sarcasm, irony, puns, and superiority would be advantageous. This could help to better understand how different modeling strategies can identify different root causes of humor. We would also want to design Subtask 2 to be more independent of Subtask 1 to encourage fresh approaches for Subtask 2. Finally, improving the common sense and world knowledge understanding capabilities of AI systems will be crucial for substantially improving the performance of computational humor systems. We hope that both the current results and the dataset in this task provide a stepping stone towards this goal.
