combining these approaches can yield better results, for example, using some selected systems to rank certain subsets of headlines.

### 6.1.2 Systematic Estimation Errors

We now analyze headlines for which the ratings from the top 20 systems were *all* either underestimates or overestimates. Table 1 shows examples of these headlines, their ground truth funniness rating, the mean of the estimated ratings of the top 20 systems and its difference from the ground truth.

Lack of understanding of world knowledge (Headline R1), cultural references (R2) and sarcasm (R3, R4 and R5) are clearly hurting these systems. The models are having difficulty recognizing the effects of negative sentiments on humor (R7 and R8) and the complex boundaries between negative sentiment and sarcastic humor (R4 and R8 both discuss death but R4 does it in a funny way). A better understanding of common sense could have helped resolve these subtleties. R3 also has the humorous effect brought about by a tension relief, which is a complex phenomenon to model. Finally, the systems are not expected to infer that bathroom humor (R6) was purposely annotated as “not funny” in the data (Hossain et al., 2019).

## 6.2 Subtask 2 (Classification)

Here we examine the top 20 aggregate system performances on Subtask 2. These 20 systems have at least 59.7% classification accuracy, much higher than the 49.5% accuracy of BASELINE.

First, we analyze the difficulty of the classification by calculating the percentage of headline pairs correctly classified by exactly $N$ systems, for $0 \leq N \leq 20$, as shown in the blue curve in Figure 4(a). As an example, there is a subset of about 3% of the headline pairs that were correctly classified by 10 of the top 20 systems. The curve rises rapidly to the right, indicating that a large fraction of the pairs can be correctly classified by 16 or more systems.

### 6.2.1 Incongruity at Play

We investigate to what extent the participating systems model incongruity as a cause of humor, as postulated in the incongruity theory of humor (Morreall, 2016). This theory claims that jokes set up an expectation that they violate later, triggering surprise and thereby generating humor. We test this hypothesis by examining the cosine distances between the GloVe vectors of the original word and each replacement word. We assume that the larger this distance is, the higher is the expected incongruity.

The dashed curve in Figure 4(a) shows the **incongruity measure** obtained using GloVe word distances:

$$
\boxed{
\begin{aligned}
\text{incongruity difference} &= \texttt{distance(orig, edit}_2\texttt{)} - \texttt{distance(orig, edit}_1\texttt{)} \\
\text{incongruity measure} &= \texttt{correlation}(\text{incongruity difference, ground truth label} \in \{1,2\})
\end{aligned}
}
$$

This rising curve implies that the funnier headline in a pair is recognized by more systems if its replacement word is more distant from the original word compared to the distance between the original word and the less funny headline’s replacement word. This indicates that these systems are possibly detecting which headline in the pair is more incongruous compared to the original headline. Moreover, for the headline

[Figure: Two line charts. Left chart legend: “aggregate classification” and “incongruity measure”; x-axis: “Number of top 20 systems correctly classifying a headline pair”; left y-axis: “% of correctly classified headline pairs”; right y-axis: “correlation between label and dist(orig,edit2) - dist(orig,edit1)”. Right chart x-axis: “Number of participating systems correctly classifying a headline pair”; y-axis: “Mean of absolute rating difference between the two headlines”.]

(a) Classification vs. incongruity.

(b) Funniness gaps vs. classification.

Figure 4: Aggregate top 20 system classification performance for Subtask 2.
