| ID | Original Headline (replaced word in **bold**) | Substitute | Rating | Est. | Err. |
|---|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| R1 | CNN ’s Jake Tapper to **interview** Paul Ryan following retirement announcement | wrestle | 2.8 | 1.17 | -1.63 |
| R2 | 4 arrested in Sydney raids to stop terrorist **attack** | kangaroo | 2.6 | 1.06 | -1.54 |
| R3 | Man Sets Off Explosive Device at L.A.-Area Cheesecake Factory, no **Injuries** | complaints | 2.4 | 0.80 | -1.60 |
| R4 | 5 dead, 9 injured in **shooting** at Fort Lauderdale Airport | delay | 1.2 | 0.49 | -0.71 |
| R5 | Congress Struggles to **Confront** Sexual Harassment as Stories Pile Up | increase | 1.2 | 0.66 | -0.54 |
| R6 | Congress Achieves the Impossible on **Tax** Reform | toilet | 0.8 | 1.35 | +0.55 |
| R7 | Overdoses now leading **cause** of death of Americans under 50 | sign | 0.0 | 0.52 | +0.52 |
| R8 | Noor Salman, widow of Orlando massacre **shooter** Omar Mateen, arrested | columnist | 0.0 | 0.43 | +0.43 |

Table 1: Edited headlines from our dataset and their funniness rating. We report the mean of the estimated ratings from the top 20 ranked participating systems (Est.) and its difference from the true rating (Err.).

- Subtask 1: Estimate the funniness of an edited headline on a 0-3 humor scale.
- Subtask 2: Given two edited versions of the same headline, determine which one is funnier.

Inviting multiple participants to a shared task contrasts with most current work on computational humor, which consists of standalone projects, each exploring a different genre or type of humor. Such projects typically involve gathering new humor data and applying machine learning to solve a particular problem. Repeated attempts at the same problem are rare, hindering incremental progress, which emphasizes the need for unified, shared humor tasks.

Recently, competitive humor tasks including shared data have been posed to the research community. One example is #HashtagWars (Potash et al., 2017), a SemEval task from 2017 that attracted eight distinct teams, where the focus was on ranking the funniness of tweets from a television show. The HAHA competition (Chiruzzo et al., 2019) had 18 participants who detected and rated humor in Spanish language tweets. There were 10 entries in a SemEval task from 2017 that looked at the automatic detection, location, and interpretation of puns (Miller et al., 2017). Finally, a related SemEval 2018 task involved irony detection in tweets (Van Hee et al., 2018).

Ours is the largest shared humor task to date in terms of participation. More than 300 participants signed up, 86 teams participated in the development phase, and 48 and 31 teams participated, respectively, in the two subtasks in the evaluation phase. By creating an intense focus on the same humor task from so many points of view, we were able to clearly understand how well these systems work as a function of different dimensions of humor, including which type of humor appears easiest to rate automatically.

## 2 Datasets

The data[^1] for this task[^2] is the **Humicroedit** dataset described in our previous work (Hossain et al., 2019). This dataset contains about 5,000 original headlines, each having three modified, potentially funny versions for a total of 15,095 edited headlines. The original headlines were collected from Reddit (`reddit.com`) via the popular subreddits `r/worldnews` and `r/politics`, where headlines from professional news sources are posted everyday. These headlines were published between 01/2017 and 05/2018, they are between 4-20 words long, and they are sampled from headlines written by 25 major English news sources.

The data was annotated using workers from Amazon Mechanical Turk, who were screened using a qualification phase to find expert headline editors and judges of humor. The editors were instructed to make a headline as funny as possible to a generic wide audience by applying a **micro-edit**, which is a replacement of a verb/noun/entity in the headline with a single word. Examples are shown in Table 1. By allowing only small edits, researchers can examine humor at the atomic level where the constrained degrees of freedom are likely to simplify analysis, understanding, and eventually generation.

Five judges were asked to rate the funniness of each edited headline using the following humor scale:

0 - Not funny&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1 - Slightly funny&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2 - Moderately funny&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3 - Funny

The funniness of an edited headline is the mean of the ratings from its five judges. For further details and analysis of the dataset, we refer the reader to Hossain et al. (2019).

[^1]: Task dataset: `https://zenodo.org/record/3969509#.XyWh6fhKh24`
[^2]: Task competition page: `https://competitions.codalab.org/competitions/20970`
