Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher Manning. 2014. Glove: Global vectors for word representation. In *Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*, pages 1532–1543, Doha, Qatar, October. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Matthew Peters, Mark Neumann, Mohit Iyyer, Matt Gardner, Christopher Clark, Kenton Lee, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2018. Deep contextualized word representations. In *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers)*, pages 2227–2237, New Orleans, Louisiana, June. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Peter Potash, Alexey Romanov, and Anna Rumshisky. 2017. Semeval-2017 task 6:# hashtagwars: Learning a sense of humor. In *Proceedings of the 11th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2017)*, pages 49–57.

Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever. 2019. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. *OpenAI Blog*, 1(8):9.

Yishay Raz. 2012. Automatic humor classification on twitter. In *Proceedings of the 2012 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies: Student Research Workshop*, pages 66–70. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Antonio Reyes, Paolo Rosso, and Davide Buscaldi. 2012. From humor recognition to irony detection: The figurative language of social media. *Data & Knowledge Engineering*, 74:1–12.

Alon Rozental, Dadi Biton, and Ido Blank. 2020. Amobee at SemEval-2020 task 7: Regularization of language model based classifiers. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Fara Shatnawi, Malak Abdullah, and Mahmoud Hammad. 2020. MLEngineer at SemEval-2020 task 7: BERT-flair based humor detection model (BFHumor). In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Anita Soloveva. 2020. SO at SemEval-2020 task 7: DeepPavlov logistic regression with BERT embeddings vs SVR at funniness evaluation. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Joseph J. Tomasulo, Jin Wang, and Xuejie Zhang. 2020. YNU-HPCC at SemEval-2020 task 7: Using an ensemble biGRU model to evaluate the humor of edited news titles. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Cynthia Van Hee, Els Lefever, and Véronique Hoste. 2018. Semeval-2018 task 3: Irony detection in english tweets. In *Proceedings of The 12th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation*, pages 39–50.

Bram Vanroy, Sofie Labat, Olha Kaminska, Els Lefever, and Véronique Hoste. 2020. LT3 at SemEval-2020 task 7: Comparing feature-based and transformer-based approaches to detect funny headlines. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Richard Wiseman. 2011. *Laughlab*. Arrow.

Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime Carbonell, Russ R Salakhtdinov, and Quoc V Le. 2019. Xlnet: Generalized autoregressive pretraining for language understanding. In *Advances in neural information processing systems*, pages 5754–5764.

Renxian Zhang and Naishi Liu. 2014. Recognizing humor on twitter. In *Proceedings of the 23rd ACM International Conference on Conference on Information and Knowledge Management*, pages 889–898.

Cheng Zhang and Hayato Yamana. 2020. WUY at SemEval-2020 task 7: Combining BERT and Naïve Bayes-SVM for humor assessment in edited news headlines. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Tiantian Zhang, Zhixuan Chen, and Man Lan. 2020. ECNU at SemEval-2020 task 7: Assessing humor in edited news headlines using biLSTM with attention. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.
