## References

Charlotte Sophie Ammer and Lea Hannah Grüner. 2020. UniTuebingenCL at SemEval-2020 task 7: Humor detection in news headlines. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Pramodith Ballapuram. 2020. LMML at SemEval-2020 task 7: Siamese transformers for rating humor in edited news headlines. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Francesco Barbieri and Horacio Saggion. 2014. Automatic detection of irony and humour in twitter. In *ICCC*, pages 155–162.

Dario Bertero and Pascale Fung. 2016. A long short-term memory framework for predicting humor in dialogues. In *Proceedings of the 2016 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 130–135, San Diego, California, June. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Weilong Chen, Jipeng Li, Chenghao Huang, Wei Bai, Yanru Zhang, and Yan Wang. 2020. Ferryman at SemEval-2020 task 7: Ensemble model for assessing humor in edited news headlines. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Luis Chiruzzo, Santiago Castro, Mathias Etcheverry, Diego Garat, Juan José Prada, and Aiala Rosá. 2019. Overview of haha at iberlef 2019: Humor analysis based on human annotation. In *Proceedings of the Iberian Languages Evaluation Forum (IberLEF 2019). CEUR Workshop Proceedings, CEUR-WS, Bilbao, Spain (9 2019)*.

Ravi Theja Desetty, Ranit Chatterjee, and Smita Ghaisas. 2020. Hasyarasa at SemEval-2020 task 7: Quantifying humor as departure from expectedness. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota, June. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Anna-Katharina Dick, Charlotte Weirich, and Alla Kutkina. 2020. HumorAAC at SemEval-2020 task 7: Assessing the funniness of edited news headlines through regression and Trump mentions. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Martin Docekal, Martin Fajcik, Josef Jon, and Pavel Smrz. 2020. JokeMeter at SemEval-2020 task 7: Convolutional humor. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.

Elena Filatova. 2012. Irony and sarcasm: Corpus generation and analysis using crowdsourcing. In *Lrec*, pages 392–398. Citeseer.

Aparna Garimella, Carmen Banea, Nabil Hossain, and Rada Mihalcea. 2020. “Judge me by my size (noun), do you?” YodaLib: A demographic-aware humor generation framework. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.00578*.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, Lucy Vanderwende, Eric Horvitz, and Henry Kautz. 2017. Filling the blanks (hint: plural noun) for mad Libs humor. In *Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 638–647, Copenhagen, Denmark, September. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, and Michael Gamon. 2019. “President vows to cut &lt;taxes&gt; hair”: Dataset and analysis of creative text editing for humorous headlines. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 133–142, Minneapolis, Minnesota, June. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, Tanvir Sajed, and Henry Kautz. 2020. Stimulating creativity with funlines: A case study of humor generation in headlines. In *Proceedings of ACL 2020, System Demonstrations*, Seattle, Washington, July. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Kristian Nørgaard Jensen, Nicolaj Filrup Rasmussen, Thai Wang, Marco Placenti, and Barbara Plank. 2020. Buhscitu at SemEval-2020 task 7: Assessing humour in edited news headlines using hand-crafted features and online knowledge bases. In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2020)*.
