### 5.1 Reuse of SubTask 1 System for Subtask 2

First, we note that for Subtask 2, most systems relied on the model they developed for Subtask 1. This involved using the model to estimate a real number funniness rating for each of the two edited headlines, and selecting the one which achieved the higher estimated rating. As a result, there was a strong correlation between teams’ placements in Subtask 1 and Subtask 2, with the top 3 teams in both tasks being the same.

### 5.2 The Hitachi System

The winner of both tasks, Hitachi (Morishita et al., 2020), formulated the problem as sentence pair regression and exploited an ensemble of the PLMs BERT, GPT-2, RoBERTa, XLNet, Transformer-XL and XLM. Their training data uses the pairs of headlines, with the replacement word marked with special tokens, and they fine-tune 50 instances per PLM, each having a unique hyperparameter setting. After applying 5-fold cross validation, they selected the 20 best performing settings per PLM, for a total of 700 PLMs (7 PLMs × 20 hyperparameters × 5 folds). They combined the predictions of these models via Ridge regression in the ensemble to predict final funniness scores. Hitachi uses the additional training data from FunLines.

### 5.3 The Amobee System

Amobee (Rozental et al., 2020) was the 2nd placed team for both Subtasks. Using PLM token embeddings, they trained 30 instances of BERT, RoBERTa and XLNet, combining them for an ensemble of 90 models.

### 5.4 The YNU-HPCC System

Unlike the top two systems, the 3rd placed YNU-HPCC (Tomasulo et al., 2020) employed an ensemble method that uses *only* the edited headlines. They used multiple pre-processing methods (e.g., cased vs uncased, with or without punctuation), and they encoded the edited headlines using FastText, Word2Vec, ELMo and BERT encoders. The final ensemble consists of 11 different encodings (four FastText, two W2V, four Bert, one ELMo). For each of these encodings, a bidirectional GRU was trained using the encoded vectors. In the ensemble, the GRU predictions were concatenated and fed to an XGBoost regressor.

#### 5.4.1 MLEngineer

The MLEngineer (Shatnawi et al., 2020) team also used only the edited headlines. They fine-tune and combine four BERT sentence regression models to estimate a rating, and they combine it with the estimated rating from a model that incorporates RoBERTA embeddings and a Naïve Bayes regressor to generate the final rating.

| Rank | Team | RMSE |
|---:|---|---:|
| 1 | Hitachi | 0.49725 |
| 2 | Amobee | 0.50726 |
| 3 | YNU-HPCC | 0.51737 |
| 4 | MLEngineer | 0.51966 |
| 5 | LMML | 0.52027 |
| 6 | ECNU | 0.52187 |
| **bench.** | **RoBERTa** | **0.52207** |
| 7 | LT3 | 0.52532 |
| 8 | WMD | 0.52603 |
| 9 | Ferryman | 0.52776 |
| 10 | zxchen | 0.52886 |
| **bench.** | **BERT** | **0.53036** |
| 11 | Duluth | 0.53108 |
| 12 | will_go | 0.53228 |
| 13 | XSYSIGMA | 0.53308 |
| 14 | LRG | 0.53318 |
| 15 | MeisterMorxrc | 0.53383 |
| 16 | JUST-Farah | 0.53396 |
| 17 | Lunex | 0.53518 |
| 18 | UniTuebingenCL | 0.53954 |
| **bench.** | **CBOW** | **0.54242** |
| 19 | IRLab_DAIICT | 0.54670 |
| 20 | O698 | 0.54754 |
| 21 | UPB | 0.54803 |
| 22 | Buhscitu | 0.55115 |
| 23 | Fermi | 0.55226 |
| 24 | INGEOTEC | 0.55391 |
| 25 | JokeMeter | 0.55791 |
| 26 | testing | 0.55838 |
| 27 | HumorAAC | 0.56454 |
| 28 | ELMo-NB | 0.56829 |
| 29 | prateekgupta2533 | 0.56983 |
| 30 | funny3 | 0.57237 |
| 31 | WUY | 0.57369 |
| 32 | XTHL | 0.57470 |
| **bench.** | **BASELINE** | **0.57471** |
| 33 | HWMT_Squad | 0.57471 |
| 34 | moonalasad | 0.57479 |
| 35 | dianenhu | 0.57488 |
| 36 | Warren | 0.57527 |
| 37 | tangmen | 0.57768 |
| 38 | Lijunyi | 0.57946 |
| 39 | Titowak | 0.58157 |
| 40 | xenia | 0.58286 |
| 41 | Smash | 0.59202 |
| 42 | KdeHumor | 0.61643 |
| 43 | uir | 0.62401 |
| 44 | SO | 0.65099 |
| 45 | heidy | 0.68338 |
| 46 | Hasyarasa | 0.70333 |
| 47 | frietz58 | 0.72252 |
| 48 | SSN_NLP | 0.84476 |

Table 4: Official results and benchmarks for Subtask 1.

### 5.5 The LMML and ECNU Systems

These systems (Ballapuram, 2020; Zhang et al., 2020) estimate the funniness of headlines using a neural architecture that focuses on the importance of the replaced and replacement words against the contextual
