$$
Accuracy = \frac{C}{N} \qquad Reward = \frac{1}{N}\sum_{i=1}^{N}(1_{\hat{y}_i=y_i} - 1_{\hat{y}_i \ne y_i})|f_i^{(1)} - f_i^{(2)}|
$$

In other words, for a larger funniness difference between the two edited headlines in a pair, the reward (or penalty) is higher for a correct classification (or misclassification). We ignore cases where the two edited versions of a headline have the same ground truth funniness.

### 4.2 Benchmarks

We provide several benchmarks in Table 3 to compare against participating systems:

1. BASELINE: assigns the mean rating (Subtask 1) or the majority label (Subtask 2) from the training set.

2. CBOW: the context independent word representations obtained using the pretrained GloVe word vectors with 300d embeddings and a dictionary of 2.2M words.

3. BERT: a regressor based on BERT base model embeddings (Devlin et al., 2019).

4. RoBERTa: same regressor as above but uses RoBERTa embeddings (Liu et al., 2019).

For a thorough discussion of these benchmarks, we refer the reader to the Duluth system (Jin et al., 2020), who performed these ablation experiments. In summary, each benchmark result uses the edited headline, CONTEXT implies using the headline’s context (with the replaced word substituted with `[MASK]`), ORIG implies using the original headline, FT refers to finetuning, FREEZE implies feature extraction (no finetuning) and FUNLINES refers to using the FunLines training data.

The results for Subtask 2 were obtained by using the model trained for Subtask 1 to assign funniness ratings to both the edited versions of a headline and then choosing the version scoring higher.

| Model | Subtask 1<br>RMSE | Subtask 2<br>Acc. | Reward |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| BASELINE | 0.575 | 0.490 | 0.020 |
| CBOW |  |  |  |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;with CONTEXT+FREEZE | **0.542** | 0.599 | 0.184 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+ORIG | 0.559 | 0.599 | 0.169 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FUNLINES | 0.544 | 0.605 | **0.191** |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+ORIG+FUNLINES | 0.558 | 0.601 | 0.173 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT | 0.544 | 0.604 | 0.178 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT+ORIG | 0.561 | 0.592 | 0.165 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT+FUNLINES | 0.548 | **0.606** | 0.188 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT+ORIG+FUNLINES | 0.563 | 0.589 | 0.161 |
| BERT |  |  |  |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;with CONTEXT+FREEZE | 0.531 | 0.616 | 0.207 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+ORIG | 0.534 | 0.603 | 0.186 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FUNLINES | **0.530** | 0.615 | 0.207 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+ORIG+FUNLINES | 0.541 | 0.615 | 0.204 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT | 0.536 | **0.635** | 0.234 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT+ORIG | 0.536 | 0.628 | 0.231 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT+FUNLINES | 0.541 | 0.630 | 0.232 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT+ORIG+FUNLINES | 0.533 | 0.629 | **0.236** |
| RoBERTa |  |  |  |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;with CONTEXT+FREEZE | 0.528 | 0.635 | 0.246 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+ORIG | 0.536 | 0.625 | 0.224 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FUNLINES | 0.528 | 0.640 | 0.252 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+ORIG+FUNLINES | 0.533 | 0.618 | 0.207 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT | 0.534 | 0.649 | **<u>0.254</u>** |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT+ORIG | 0.527 | **<u>0.650</u>** | **<u>0.254</u>** |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT+FUNLINES | 0.526 | 0.638 | 0.233 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;+FT+ORIG+FUNLINES | **<u>0.522</u>** | 0.626 | 0.216 |

Table 3: Benchmarks on the test set. The best within each model type is **bolded**, and the overall best is <u>underlined</u>.

### 4.3 Results

The official results for Subtasks 1 and 2 are shown, respectively, in Tables 4 and 5, including the performance of the benchmarks. There were 48 participants for Subtask 1, while Subtask 2 attracted 31 participants. For both subtasks, the best performing system was Hitachi, achieving an RMSE of 0.49725 (a 13.5% improvement over BASELINE) for Subtask 1, and an accuracy of 67.43% (a 17.93 increase in percentage points over BASELINE) for Subtask 2.

## 5 Overview of Participating Systems

The dominant teams made use of pre-trained language models (PLM), namely BERT, RoBERTa, ELMo (Peters et al., 2018), GPT-2 (Radford et al., 2019) and XLNet (Yang et al., 2019). Context-independent word embeddings, such as Word2Vec (Mikolov et al., 2013), FastText (Joulin et al., 2017) and GloVe word vectors (Pennington et al., 2014), were also useful. The winning teams combined the predictions of several hyperparameter-tuned versions of these models using regression in an ensemble learner to arrive at the final prediction. Next, we summarize the top systems and other notable approaches.
