| **ID** | **Original Headline** (replaced word in **bold**) | **Substitute** | **Rating** | **Dist.** |
|---|---|---|---:|---:|
| C1 | Secret **Service** likely wouldn’t have intervened in Trump Jr.-Russia meeting | police | 0.0 | 0.72 |
| ✔ | Secret **Service** likely wouldn’t have intervened in Trump Jr.-Russia meeting | Santa | 2.6 | 0.85 |
| C2 | Amazon, Facebook and Google could save **billions** thanks to the GOP tax bill | puppies | 1.0 | 0.89 |
| ✖ | Amazon, Facebook and Google could save **billions** thanks to the GOP tax bill | pennies | 2.2 | 0.54 |
| C3 | LA Times editorial board condemns Donald Trump **presidency** as ’trainwreck’ | diet | 1.2 | 0.96 |
| ✔ | LA Times editorial board **condemns** Donald Trump presidency as ’trainwreck’ | celebrates | 1.0 | 0.69 |
| C4 | US officials drop **mining** cleanup rule after industry objects | floor | 1.4 | 0.86 |
| ✖ | US officials drop **mining** cleanup rule after industry objects | Bedroom | 1.2 | 1.01 |

Table 6: Examples from Subtask 2 where the top 20 systems collectively either failed (✖) or succeeded (✔) in recognizing the funnier headline. On the overall dataset, these were the extreme headline pairs, having either the largest or the smallest differences in funniness between their headlines. We also report the GloVe word vector distances, mapped to the range 0-2, between the replaced and replacement words.

pairs which were incorrectly classified by all systems, the incongruity measure is around -0.6, implying that in these headline pairs, the less incongruous (*i.e.*, more coherent) version is the funnier of the two. This further indicates that these systems are mostly recognizing incongruity and they tend to fail where incongruity is not the cause of humor.

### 6.2.2 Funniness Gaps

Next, we inspect whether the funniness difference between the two headlines in a pair affects classification accuracy. We calculate the mean absolute funniness difference between the headline pairs within each of the $N$ bins of systems that correctly classified them, as shown in Figure 4(b). For example, the funniness difference between the two headlines in the pairs, which were correctly classified by all 20 systems, was around 0.8 on average. The rising trend in the curve suggests that, in general, more systems are able to correctly classify headline pairs having larger differences in humor. This helps confirm the annotation quality in the dataset, showing that humans and machines both agree on the intensity of humor in the dataset, and both can distinguish between slight humor and extreme humor.

Recall also from Section 5.1 that most of the systems for Subtask 2 were simply applying the systems from Subtask 1 to find the funnier of the two headlines by comparing their funniness scores. Pairs with widely different funniness would less likely have overlapping uncertainty, leading to more accurate pairwise rankings.

### 6.2.3 Extreme Examples

We discuss the collective top 20 system performance on edge case examples, with references to Table 6:

- **C1:** Among all the test examples which were *correctly* classified by the 20 systems, C1 has the largest funniness difference between its pair of headlines. “Secret service” and “secret police” are quite natural in text and substituting one with the other barely changes the headline’s meaning. However, using “secret santa” clearly raises the surprise. All classifiers were able to assess this relatively easy example.
- **C2:** This is the example with the largest funniness difference which all 20 systems *incorrectly* classified. This could be because “puppies” is semantically more distant from “billions” than “pennies” (according to GloVe). Although both headline substitutions are funny and incongruous, the antonym effect of the “pennies” version triggers a further sarcastic humor, since “pennies” is numerically much less than the original word “billions”, but still in the category of money. Lacking world knowledge of this numerical difference, the systems award the more incongruous “puppies” the higher ranking. As mentioned in 6.2.1, these systems are especially sensitive to general incongruity as a source of humor and they are likely less aware of other causes of humor, such as meaning reversal.
- **C3:** This example has the smallest funniness difference of the sentences that were correctly classified by all 20 systems. Its less funny headline is sarcastic and most likely all classifiers were unable to recognize sarcasm and thus correctly chose the other headline as the funnier. If this is true, then ignorance about sarcasm was a lucky benefit in this case.
