| Type | Example |
|---|---|
| Sarcasm | 1. “It’s astonishing how someone so average and unremarkable can manage to feel good about themselves.”<br><br>2. “Nice perfume. How long did you marinate in it?” |
| Non-sarcasm | 3. “You’re an idiot.”<br><br>4.“Thank you so much for buying me a Ferrari!” |

Table 3: Examples of sarcasm and non-sarcasm.

significant contributing factor in an individual’s ability to correctly perceive intended sarcasm, with older individuals struggling more than younger. Furthermore, Rockwell and Theriot (2001) find gender differences in the patterns of sarcasm use to both be affected by the gender of the speaker, as well as the gender of the recipient interlocuter. Additionally, the use of sarcasm has been shown to vary alongside socio-cultural contexts, with Blasko et al. (2021) noting that sarcasm use is more prevalent in individualist countries with a lower power distance such as the U.S than collectivist countries with higher power distance such as China.[^6] It logically follows, therefore, that these differences may also impact someone’s ability to perceive intended sarcasm, and consequently how they would react to sarcastic utterances in different contexts.

## 4 Critical Survey

Following existing works that critically review human evaluation procedures in Natural Language Generation, we present a critical survey of works in the area of computational humour, irony, and sarcasm. We begin by reviewing the scope and range of our literature search for this review and the prerequisite criteria for incorporation. Following this, we motivate the need for increased care in this specific domain of language by briefly exploring the prevalence of research in the area, both in terms of generative works, as well as those on the detection of such language. As previously discussed, irony and sarcasm are highly related language forms, resulting in the common use of the terms interchangeably. However, to ensure that the intended definition is respected (the correctness of which cannot always be inferred with complete certainty) we report irony and sarcasm separately based on the titles of the papers.

### 4.1 Scope and Selection

The papers included in this survey pool were all taken from the ACL Anthology for the venues of \*ACL, EMNLP, COLING, LREC, INLG, and CoNLL, between 2018 and 2023.[^7][^8] Initially, all papers concerning humour, irony and sarcasm were selected. This was performed by keyword matching titles on the following word stems: “hum-”, “sarc-”, “iron-”, “fun-”, “jok-” and “pun-”.[^9][^10] The selected papers include main conference, Findings, and workshop submissions, in addition to one system demonstration, resulting in 259 papers. Submissions to shared-tasks were then excluded, reducing the pool to 135 papers.[^11] The resulting papers were then checked over to ensure relevance, and categorised broadly into generation or detection (the latter of which may be binary, multi-class, or estimation). These criteria resulted in 135 remaining papers, of which 22 were focused on the generation of humour, sarcasm and/or irony, and 108 on detection (with the remaining 5 being classed as "other"). We then excluded 4 of the remaining 22 generation papers that were surveys or dataset papers where human evaluation was performed on non-computationally generated examples. This resulted in a final selection of 18 generation papers, all of which are listed in Appendix A.1.

### 4.2 Subject Prevalence

As seen in Figure 1, there has been a significant number of accepted papers on these topics within this 6 year scope of collection. In addition to these papers, this search also revealed 5 shared tasks within this period, including a sarcasm detection shared task

[^6]: “Power Distance” refers to the distribution of perceived power (political, financial etc.) across a society. A lower power distance means that members of a society are more “equal”, for example, when comparing a blue collar worker to a politician.

[^7]: Where the relevant venues have occurred at the time of writing.

[^8]: INLG and CoNLL contributed 0 papers that met our criteria for inclusion, but were nevertheless surveyed.

[^9]: To capture the most common form of humour generation.

[^10]: In order to capture “humour”, “sarcasm”, “irony”, “funny”, “joke”, and “puns”, including all derivations and regional spelling.

[^11]: This is due to shared task submissions often attracting non-novel approaches, and all following a standardised evaluation procedure as determined by the task organisers. Their inclusion would therefore bias the results.
