E. Camp. 2012. Sarcasm, pretense, and the semantics/pragmatics distinction. *Nous*, 46:587–634.

Tuhin Chakrabarty, Debanjan Ghosh, Smaranda Muresan, and Nanyun Peng. 2020. R³: Reverse, retrieve, and rank for sarcasm generation with commonsense knowledge. In *Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 7976–7986, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Arjun Chandrasekaran, Devi Parikh, and Mohit Bansal. 2018. Punny captions: Witty wordplay in image descriptions. In *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers)*, pages 770–775, New Orleans, Louisiana. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Wenhu Chen, Yu Su, Xifeng Yan, and William Yang Wang. 2020. KGPT: Knowledge-grounded pre-training for data-to-text generation. In *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*, pages 8635–8648, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Noam Chomsky. 1957. *Syntactic structures*. Syntactic structures. Mouton, Oxford, England.

Elizabeth Clark, Tal August, Sofia Serrano, Nikita Haduong, Suchin Gururangan, and Noah A. Smith. 2021. All that’s ‘human’ is not gold: Evaluating human evaluation of generated text. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 7282–7296, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jennifer Coates. 2016. *Women, men and language: A sociolinguistic account of gender differences in language*. Routledge.

Iria de Dios-Flores, Carmen Magariños, Adina Ioana Vladu, John E. Ortega, José Ramon Pichel, Marcos García, Pablo Gamallo, Elisa Fernández Rei, Alberto Bugarín-Diz, Manuel González González, Senén Barro, and Xosé Luis Regueira. 2022. The nós project: Opening routes for the Galician language in the field of language technologies. In *Proceedings of the Workshop Towards Digital Language Equality within the 13th Language Resources and Evaluation Conference*, pages 52–61, Marseille, France. European Language Resources Association.

European Commission and Directorate-General for Research and Innovation. 2019. She figures 2018. Technical report, European Commission.

Dalya Faraj and Malak Abdullah. 2021. SarcasmDet at SemEval-2021 task 7: Detect humor and offensive based on demographic factors using RoBERTa pre-trained model. In *Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2021)*, pages 527–533, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Elena Filatova. 2012. Irony and sarcasm: Corpus generation and analysis using crowdsourcing. In *Lrec*, pages 392–398. Citeseer.

Ruth Filik, Alexandra Turcan, Christina Ralph-Nearman, and Alain Pitiot. 2019. What is the difference between irony and sarcasm? an fmri study. *Cortex*, 115:112–122.

Simona Frenda, Alessandro Pedrani, Valerio Basile, Soda Marem Lo, Alessandra Teresa Cignarella, Raffaella Panizzon, Cristina Marco, Bianca Scarlini, Viviana Patti, Cristina Bosco, and Davide Bernardi. 2023. Epic: Multi-perspective annotation of a corpus of irony. In *ACL 2023*.

Judit García-González, Patricia Forcén, and Maria Jimenez-Sanchez. 2019. Men and women differ in their perception of gender bias in research institutions. *PloS one*, 14(12):e0225763–e0225763.

Aparna Garimella, Carmen Banea, Nabil Hossain, and Rada Mihalcea. 2020. “judge me by my size (noun), do you?” YodaLib: A demographic-aware humor generation framework. In *Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics*, pages 2814–2825, Barcelona, Spain (Online). International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Ricky Gervais. 2011. Ricky gervais: The difference between american and british humour.

Debanjan Ghosh, Avijit Vajpayee, and Smaranda Muresan. 2020. A report on the 2020 sarcasm detection shared task. In *Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Figurative Language Processing*, pages 1–11, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Raymond W Gibbs. 1986. On the psycholinguistics of sarcasm. *Journal of experimental psychology: general*, 115(1):3.

Seraphina Goldfarb-Tarrant, Tuhin Chakrabarty, Ralph Weischedel, and Nanyun Peng. 2020. Content planning for neural story generation with aristotelian rescoring. In *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*, pages 4319–4338, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tomas Goldsack, Zhihao Zhang, Chenghua Lin, and Carolina Scarton. 2022. Making science simple: Corpora for the lay summarisation of scientific literature. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 10589–10604, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tomas Goldsack, Zhihao Zhang, Chenghua Lin, and Carolina Scarton. 2023. Domain-driven and discourse-guided scientific summarisation. In *European Conference on Information Retrieval*, pages 361–376.

P.H. Grice. 1978. *Further notes on logic and conversation*, volume 9, pages 113–127. P. Cole, Syntax and Semantics, New York: Academic Press.
