of evaluation *itself*, such as the HumEval workshops at EACL 2021, ACL 2022 and RANLP 2023.[^3] As a product of such venues, multiple recent works have been proposed that aim to highlight common inadequacies in multiple aspects of human evaluation, including the design of assessment criteria, the recruitment and training of participants, the use of biased response elicitation techniques (Parmar et al., 2023), and the transparency of reporting these processes.

Howcroft et al. (2020) assess a 20 year time-span of work within NLG (165 papers between 2000-2019) in regard to how evaluation procedures are performed, finding that there is substantial variation in how evaluation criteria are named and portrayed. Resulting from this, they produce normalised mappings between different criteria descriptions and their underlying evaluation focus and call for human evaluation criteria to be standardised, in addition to the creation of evaluation sheets outlining best practices for response elicitation from evaluators. Amidei et al. (2019) also assess NLG research in terms of response elicitation methods with a particular focus on the use of Likert scales and common deviations from best-practice within 135 papers from a 10 year period (e.g. whether or not to view them as ordinal or interval in nature, and consequently how to perform statistical significance testing). Further issues have also been identified by Schoch et al. (2020) with the framing of evaluation questions and participant recruitment methods, including the presence of demand characteristics in evaluators being more common on crowdsourcing platforms as participants vie for limited positions in HITs and wish to give researchers the results they believe they desire (under the belief it will lead to more future work).[^4] Furthermore, these issues are exacerbated by cases wherein researchers reject annotations outright due to not falling in line with their expectations, or pay inadequately for services on crowdsourcing platforms (Huynh et al., 2021; Shmueli et al., 2021). However, whilst automatic metrics may have many drawbacks for evaluating NLG, human evaluation has been suggested to be imperfect by its very nature, with human judgements being inconsistent. For example, Clark et al. (2021) find that human evaluators range significantly in their preconceptions of the quality of text NLG systems can produce, resulting in evaluators having biased perspectives when assessing text quality (a bias that is only somewhat overcome with the provision of training materials to standardise criteria definitions among evaluators). In order to partially mitigate these evaluation pitfalls, van der Lee et al. (2019) suggest a range of best practices, including the reporting of confidence intervals for results, using multiple ratings of each criteria, and using randomisation and counterbalancing when assigning evaluators to conditions (e.g. human- vs model- generated text). Additionally, due to many of the problems that we outline in this work, the domain is currently starting to demonstrate the progression of a paradigm shift towards understanding the role of human disagreement as a valuable feature, rather than noise, which is also resulting in the rise of perspectivist approaches (Pavlick and Kwiatkowski, 2019; Meaney, 2020; Plank, 2022; Uma et al., 2022). Additionally, whilst the use of such language can lead to different responses from different people, this effect is compounded in human-computer interactions, where the communicative divide is even more pronounced (Shani et al., 2022; Shapira et al., 2023).

## 3 Introducing Humour, Sarcasm, and Irony

In the following section we discuss three primary examples of language types where interpretations and opinions are highly affected by a range of nuanced participant variables. For each type, we outline the nature of this language alongside a range of examples, and reflect upon how interpretation of these examples may differ across demographics.

### 3.1 Humour

As the first language form to discuss, humour is also one of the most complex. The general consensus within cognitive and linguistic theories of humour is that an essential element for something to be found humorous is the existence of some degree of incongruity between expectations and reality (Raskin, 1985). Consequently, the experience of humour arises from the resolution of these incongruities within someone’s mind. This, in turn, is how puns may elicit humour, when the initial interpretation of a text primes the interpretation of one semantic sense of a word, before that expectation is violated when the text is viewed as a whole. For example, in “the greyhound stopped to get a hare cut”, the interpretation of “hare” as in the rabbit-like animal is primed by the mention of the “greyhound” which chases hares, whilst “hare cut” forces the reader to reinterpret “hare” as the homophone “hair”, which resolves the incongruity from the non-collocational phrase “hare cut” (He et al., 2019).

[^3]: `https://humeval.github.io`

[^4]: Demand characteristics are cues that may allow a participant to infer the nature and desired outcome of a study, often resulting in the participant then altering their behaviour to align with the perceived expectation, thereby invalidating results.
