## Limitations

The limitations of this work are as follows. We only survey papers from 2018-2023 in order to capture more recent and modern behaviours in the research discipline. However, this results in a small number of available papers. This is naturally exacerbated by the choice of focusing solely on humour, sarcasm and irony, rather than language generation more generally. However, we believe that surveys of NLG broadly have been performed in recent years to high standards, and instead wish to use these niche language types as specific examples of types of language that are immensely affected by these factors, whilst conveying that transparent reporting and consideration of evaluation practices is entirely applicable to NLG as a whole, and not just the subdomains we focus on. Furthermore, we focus exclusively on the use of human evaluators in generation tasks. However, much of the same ideas apply equally to the selection of annotators during dataset creation for detection tasks. All statements and opinions expressed in this work are by nature in good faith, and we accept, appreciate and welcome perspectives from other individuals from different backgrounds to support, challenge, or revise any of the claims made herein.

## Ethics Statement

We believe in and firmly adhere to the ACL Code of Conduct in the performance of this survey and the expression of opinions. We review only information that was publicly available in the published versions of the papers we discussed. However, whilst we encourage the collection of a lot of metadata about participants in NLG research, we emphasise that this data should only be collected where the correct ethics application procedures have been followed by the respective researchers, and that collected information should be only as fine-grained as is needed to accurately characterise the participant panel (for example, someone’s hometown is not necessary when their nationality or cultural identity would suffice, and neither is someone’s exact age when 10-year age brackets may be sufficient).

## Acknowledgements

Tyler Loakman is supported by the Centre for Doctoral Training in Speech and Language Technologies (SLT) and their Applications funded by UK Research and Innovation [grant number EP/S023062/1]. Aaron Maladry is supported by Ghent University [grant BOF.24Y.2021.0019.01.]

## References

Gavin Abercrombie, Amanda Cercas Curry, Mugdha Pandya, and Verena Rieser. 2021. Alexa, Google, Siri: What are your pronouns? gender and anthropomorphism in the design and perception of conversational assistants. In *Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Gender Bias in Natural Language Processing*, pages 24–33, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Ibrahim Abu Farha, Silviu Vlad Oprea, Steven Wilson, and Walid Magdy. 2022. SemEval-2022 task 6: iSarcasmEval, intended sarcasm detection in English and Arabic. In *Proceedings of the 16th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2022)*, pages 802–814, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Ibrahim Abu Farha, Wajdi Zaghouani, and Walid Magdy. 2021. Overview of the WANLP 2021 shared task on sarcasm and sentiment detection in Arabic. In *Proceedings of the Sixth Arabic Natural Language Processing Workshop*, pages 296–305, Kyiv, Ukraine (Virtual). Association for Computational Linguistics.

Fernando Alva-Manchego, Carolina Scarton, and Lucia Specia. 2021. The (un)suitability of automatic evaluation metrics for text simplification. *Computational Linguistics*, 47(4):861–889.

Jacopo Amidei, Paul Piwek, and Alistair Willis. 2019. The use of rating and Likert scales in natural language generation human evaluation tasks: A review and some recommendations. In *Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Natural Language Generation*, pages 397–402, Tokyo, Japan. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Emily M. Bender and Batya Friedman. 2018. Data statements for natural language processing: Toward mitigating system bias and enabling better science. *Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, 6:587–604.

Dawn G. Blasko, Victoria A. Kazmerski, and Shariffah Sheik Dawood. 2021. Saying what you don’t mean: A cross-cultural study of perceptions of sarcasm. *Canadian Journal of Experimental Psychology / Revue canadienne de psychologie expérimentale*, 75(2):114–119.

Aurélie Breidenbach, Caroline Mahlow, and Andreas Schreiber. 2021. Implicit gender bias in computer science – a qualitative study.

Gregory A Bryant and Jean E Fox Tree. 2002. Recognizing verbal irony in spontaneous speech. *Metaphor and symbol*, 17(2):99–119.

C. Burgers. 2010. *Verbal irony: Use and effects in written discourse*. Ph.D. thesis, UB Nijmegen.

Chris Callison-Burch. 2009. Fast, cheap, and creative: Evaluating translation quality using Amazon’s Mechanical Turk. In *Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 286–295, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.
