# The Iron(ic) Melting Pot:  
# Reviewing Human Evaluation in Humour, Irony and Sarcasm Generation

**Tyler Loakman<sup>1</sup>, Aaron Maladry<sup>2</sup> and Chenghua Lin<sup>1,3 *</sup>**  
<sup>1</sup>Department of Computer Science, The University of Sheffield, UK  
<sup>2</sup>LT<sup>3</sup>, Ghent University, Belgium  
<sup>3</sup>Department of Computer Science, The University of Manchester, UK  
`tcloakman1@sheffield.ac.uk`  
`aaron.maladry@ugent.be`  
`chenghua.lin@manchester.ac.uk`

## Abstract

Human evaluation is often considered to be the gold standard method of evaluating a Natural Language Generation system. However, whilst its importance is accepted by the community at large, the quality of its execution is often brought into question. In this position paper, we argue that the generation of more esoteric forms of language - humour, irony and sarcasm - constitutes a subdomain where the characteristics of selected evaluator panels are of utmost importance, and every effort should be made to report demographic characteristics wherever possible, in the interest of transparency and replicability. We support these claims with an overview of each language form and an analysis of examples in terms of how their interpretation is affected by different participant variables. We additionally perform a critical survey of recent works in NLG to assess how well evaluation procedures are reported in this subdomain, and note a severe lack of open reporting of evaluator demographic information, and a significant reliance on crowdsourcing platforms for recruitment.

## 1 Introduction

The aim of a Natural Language Generation (NLG) system is to generate coherent and well-formed text of a particular type, usually given an input such as a prompt (Raffel et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2022), outline (Goldfarb-Tarrant et al., 2020; Tang et al., 2022), topic (Van de Cruys, 2020), or data (Kale and Rastogi, 2020; Chen et al., 2020). As a result, NLG contains many sub-domains such as summarisation (Goldsack et al., 2022, 2023), data-to-text generation (Kale and Rastogi, 2020; Chen et al., 2020), dialogue generation (Tang et al., 2023), story generation (Goldfarb-Tarrant et al., 2020; Tang et al., 2022), and humour generation (Sun et al., 2022b; Loakman et al., 2023). Whilst it may be possible for any competent speaker of the target language to sufficiently understand generated outputs, many language forms may be considered more esoteric, such as humour, irony, and sarcasm - where interpretations of such language are highly intertwined with more broad demographic characteristics, as well as individual and idiosyncratic factors.

Human evaluation is viewed as the foremost important form of evaluation for any NLG system (Howcroft et al., 2020), owing largely to its direct capture of the opinions of the (usually) human end-user.[^1] This is made even more prominent when considering the low concurrent validity that many easily deployed automatic evaluation metrics have with human judgements (Reiter, 2018; Alva-Manchego et al., 2021; Zhao et al., 2023a). Whilst such evaluation procedures are considered preferable over automatic metrics (particularly in the cases where no reliable automatic metrics are available), this does not mean that they are infallible. Numerous recent works have outlined the inconsistency with which human evaluation procedures are executed, and increasing attention is being brought to the knock-on effects that such oversights may cause (Zajko, 2021).

In this paper, we present an overview of 3 particular types of language: humour, irony and sarcasm - and demonstrate how different evaluator demographics[^2] may affect the interpretation of such language, and therefore its evaluation in relevant systems. Furthermore, we present a critical survey and assessment of 17 NLG research papers from between 2018 and 2023 from the ACL Anthology that concern the generation of these types of language, and analyse behaviour in regard to the level of transparency used when reporting details of the human evaluation procedure.

## 2 Related Works

In recent years, the execution of human evaluation in NLG has become an even more significant topic, with myriad top-tier venues hosting dedicated tracks and workshops specifically focused on the evaluation

\* Corresponding author

[^1]: Sometimes NLG outputs are used as inputs to further NLG models (Zhang et al., 2022).

[^2]: In what we describe as a "cultural melting pot" in the title.
