Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Silviu Vlad Oprea, Steven Wilson, and Walid Magdy. 2022. Should a chatbot be sarcastic? understanding user preferences towards sarcasm generation. In *Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 7686–7700, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Vaishnavi Pamulapati, Gayatri Purigilla, and Radhika Mamidi. 2020. A novel annotation schema for conversational humor: Capturing the cultural nuances in kanyasulkam. In *Proceedings of the 14th Linguistic Annotation Workshop*, pages 34–47, Barcelona, Spain. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Mihir Parmar, Swaroop Mishra, Mor Geva, and Chitta Baral. 2023. Don’t blame the annotator: Bias already starts in the annotation instructions. In *Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 1779–1789, Dubrovnik, Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Ellie Pavlick and Tom Kwiatkowski. 2019. Inherent Disagreements in Human Textual Inferences. *Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, 7:677–694.

Louise H. Phillips, Roy Allen, Rebecca Bull, Alexandra Hering, Matthias Kliegel, and Shelley Channon. 2015. Older adults have difficulty in decoding sarcasm. *Developmental Psychology*, 51(12):1840–1852.

Barbara Plank. 2022. The “problem” of human label variation: On ground truth in data, modeling and evaluation. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 10671–10682, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Ella Rabinovich, Hila Gonen, and Suzanne Stevenson. 2020. Pick a fight or bite your tongue: Investigation of gender differences in idiomatic language usage. In *Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics*, pages 5181–5192, Barcelona, Spain (Online). International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. 2020. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. *Journal of Machine Learning Research*, 21(140):1–67.

Victor Raskin. 1985. *Semantic mechanisms of humor*. Synthese language library ; 24. Reidel, Dordrecht.

Ehud Reiter. 2018. A structured review of the validity of BLEU. *Computational Linguistics*, 44(3):393–401.

Patricia Rockwell and Evelyn M. Theriot. 2001. Culture, gender, and gender mix in encoders of sarcasm: A self-assessment analysis. *Communication Research Reports*, 18(1):44–52.

Stephanie Schoch, Diyi Yang, and Yangfeng Ji. 2020. “this is a problem, don’t you agree?” framing and bias in human evaluation for natural language generation. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Evaluating NLG Evaluation*, pages 10–16, Online (Dublin, Ireland). Association for Computational Linguistics.

Chen Shani, Alexander Libov, Sofia Tolmach, Liane Lewin-Eytan, Yoelle Maarek, and Dafna Shahaf. 2022. “alexa, do you want to build a snowman?” characterizing playful requests to conversational agents. In *Extended Abstracts of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems*, CHI EA ’22, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Natalie Shapira, Oren Kalinsky, Alexander Libov, Chen Shani, and Sofia Tolmach. 2023. Evaluating humorous response generation to playful shopping requests. In *ECIR 2023*.

Boaz Shmueli, Jan Fell, Soumya Ray, and Lun-Wei Ku. 2021. Beyond fair pay: Ethical implications of NLP crowdsourcing. In *Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 3758–3769, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Gary F. Simons, Abbey L. L. Thomas, and Chad K. K. White. 2022. Assessing digital language support on a global scale. In *Proceedings of the 29th International Conference on Computational Linguistics*, pages 4299–4305, Gyeongju, Republic of Korea. International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Anders Søgaard. 2022. Should we ban English NLP for a year? In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 5254–5260, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Alessandra Cervone, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022a. ExPUNations: Augmenting puns with keywords and explanations. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4590–4605, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Shuyang Gao, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022b. Context-situated pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4635–4648, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Chen Tang, Hongbo Zhang, Tyler Loakman, Chenghua Lin, and Frank Guerin. 2023. Terminology-aware medical dialogue generation. In *ICASSP 2023 - 2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP)*, pages 1–5.
