| Type | Example |
|---|---|
| Humour | 1. Q: “Why would Trump change a lightbulb?” A: “He was told Obama installed it.” |
|  | 2. Q: “How does a man change a lightbulb?” A: “He holds it and waits for the world to revolve around him.” |
| Non-humour | 3. “Colourless green ideas sleep furiously.” |

Table 1: Examples of humorous jokes with different types of assumed world knowledge.

Whilst puns are the most frequently studied form of humour in the area of NLG (He et al., 2019; Mittal et al., 2022; Tian et al., 2022), primarily due to their simple exploitation of phonetics and word senses, humour more generally can arise from more complex incongruities which are more likely to be resolved by individuals with specific assumed world knowledge. Table 1 presents examples of such humour. In Example 1, the perception of humour is dependent on factors including an individual’s knowledge of politics and their ideological leaning, as well as region.[^5] The reader is therefore assumed to have external background knowledge of US politics in order to infer that the joke concerns Donald Trump’s record of reversing actions made by his predecessor, Barack Obama. Additionally, due to the joke using Trump as the target and in effect calling him petty, whether or not this joke is seen as humorous is also dependent on one’s political leanings. This is due to Republicans, the political party that Trump represented, being less likely to find comments mocking him to be humorous. In Example 2, the joke is based around the shared knowledge of individuals in a patriarchal society which has, of course, traditionally benefited men. As a result, the joke uses men as the target, and comments on a presumed level of arrogance. In addition, this example requires the reader to interpret both literal and metaphorical meanings of something “revolving around” something else. Consequently, factors that could affect the perception of humour here are one’s familiarity with a patriarchal society and culture (as it can be imagined that such assumptions about male arrogance are not shared by members of a matriarchal culture). Additionally, due to the joke targeting men, there is the possibility for some men to be offended at the assumptions that it is making, and it is known that gender generally affects the perception of certain types of jokes such as these (Lawless et al., 2020). Furthermore, a large body of work has investigated the different tendencies of particular genders towards different patterns of language use, which in some cases may also affect the perception of different language types (Coates, 2016; Rabinovich et al., 2020). Finally, Example 3 (Chomsky, 1957) is an instance of an incongruous sentence which is semantically nonsensical (yet grammatically valid), where this incongruity does not give rise to humour (in the general case). In addition to the examples outlined and analysed here, numerous works have also ascertained a link between different demographic variables and humour perception. For example, Jiang et al. (2019) explore the literature on how individuals in the Western and Eastern worlds view humour as suitable under different conditions, and differ also in the exact forms of humour they opt to produce.

### 3.2 Irony

Although the exact definition of irony still remains a topic of discussion, NLP research has reached the general consensus that verbal irony is a form of figurative language where the producer of the language intends to convey the opposite meaning of the literal interpretation (Grice, 1978; Burgers, 2010; Camp, 2012). Consequently, similar to within the humour domain, an ironic statement violates the true beliefs of the producer and the expectations of the audience. It is for this reason that many ironic (and sarcastic) statements may also be considered humorous - a well known feature of British comedy programming (Gervais, 2011). This means that correct understanding of irony presupposes true or accepted knowledge about whatever thing, person or situation is being referred to. Such presupposed knowledge can assume multiple forms. A range of ironic texts are presented in Table 2. Irony can, for example, be factual, where it is generated by making a factually incorrect statement such as in Example 1 where a human alludes to having wings. Alternatively, it can also rely on social conventions, habits or shared knowledge within members of a community. For instance, in order to understand the irony in Example 2, the receiver is expected to know that most people would not genuinely applaud the actions of someone they call a dictator. Whilst some knowledge and social

[^5]: In this case, US politics is quite well known world-over, but a similar joke for a different government could be imagined, where universal knowledge would be far less likely.
