| Type | # Papers | Percentage |
|---|---:|---:|
| **Demographics?** | 7 | <42% |
| **Language Proficiency** | 4 | <24% |
| **Location/Nationality** | 4 | <24% |
| Age | 0 | 0% |
| **Gender** | 0 | 0% |
| **Education** | 1 | <6% |
| **Social Class** | 0 | 0% |

Table 4: Counts of papers containing reporting of demographic variables in the area of humour, sarcasm and irony generation. "Demographics" refers to the number/percentage of papers that report any demographic information.

9.23 USD[^13] (Oprea et al., 2021, 2022) to 20 USD per hour (Tian et al., 2022; Mittal et al., 2022).

One reason that transparent reporting of recruitment methods is important is due to allowing inference of potential participant characteristics that may not be reported elsewhere. For instance, research in the social sciences has often been criticised for focusing primarily on **WEIRD** participants, **Western** and **Educated** individuals from **Industrialised**, **Rich** and **Democratic** societies (Henrich et al., 2010). However, as access to language technology becomes more democratised, cheaper to access and easier to use (Simons et al., 2022; de Dios-Flores et al., 2022) the majority of end users of these technologies are not going to be well represented by this set of characteristics that participants often have. This tendency is further reflected by the overwhelming bias towards work on the English language, which leads to the demotion of other non-digitally accessible languages, and reinforces existing inequalities (Søgaard, 2022). In addition to these characteristics, there has also historically been a bias towards male participants in scientific research (Holdcroft, 2007; García-González et al., 2019), something that is also common in AI due to the field of computer science still being dominated by men overall (European Commission and Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, 2019; Breidenbach et al., 2021). Consequently, not only does this result in AI research not involving people from key demographics who will be affected by these technologies, but the research performed on the generated language will lack important replicability for the evaluation process, where heterogeneous evaluation panels are not conducive to easy comparison across studies.[^14] Whilst the substantial reliance on crowdsourcing platforms, particularly Mechanical Turk, may result in a different set of participants to the typical WEIRD demographic in social science and health research, the lack of reliable worker filters and allowances on what demographic data can be collected by requesters nevertheless results in a biased sample. Early works on the the use of crowdsourcing outside of this survey have even touted the low cost as an affordance of the method, whilst paying as low as 1/10th of a single US cent per individual HIT task (Callison-Burch, 2009). Perspectives such as these therefore result in biased demographics being used for evaluation and annotation at best, and the outright exploitation of people from particular socio-economic backgrounds and regions at worst.

In terms of inter-annotator agreement (IAA), we find that just over half of the surveyed papers include explicit mention of statistical tests for agreement levels. IAA is one method through which the variation amongst evaluator opinions can best be analysed, in order to understand how subjective a task is, and consequently how best to assess the quality of an NLG system’s output where there is no “ground truth” for a given criteria (e.g. the humour, irony and sarcasm discussed here). Finally, we note that only 4 (of 17) papers convey any information regarding the level of training given to participants, whether that constitute the presence of qualifier tasks on crowdsourcing platforms (Sun et al., 2022a,b) or extensive documentation on the nature of the task (Oprea et al., 2021, 2022). In tasks that are inherently subjective, the provision of adequate training materials can help to account for variation in the understanding of different individuals by orientating opinions, and ensuring that all evaluators are working from the same definition of a particular phenomenon (such as distinguishing between general verbal irony and sarcasm specifically). Especially in cases where IAA is not reported, the inclusion of the extent of this background training given to evaluators is useful to the research community for judging to what extent the evaluators were in-line with each other’s perspectives.

## 5 Discussion and Proposed Action Points

Our analysis has shown a distinct lack of reporting on potentially relevant demographic information in ad-

[^13]: This study paid 0.38 GBP for approximately 3 minutes of work. The USD conversion is the exchange rate at the time of writing this survey.

[^14]: We exclude the cases where the research was intended for a specific demographic group to start with, in which case a more homogeneous evaluator group may be desirable.
