| Factor | # Papers | Percentage |
|---|---:|---:|
| **Recruitment** | 12 | <71% |
| **Compensation** | 5 | <30% |
| **IAA** | 9 | <53% |
| **Training Materials** | 4 | <24% |

Table 5: Counts of papers containing explicit mention of recruitment methods, compensation details, inter-annotator agreement (IAA), and the provision of training materials.

dition to details concerning the evaluation procedure. To tackle this issue, we suggest future work on the evaluation of (especially subjective) generative tasks to include an “evaluation statement”, akin to the data statements proposed by Bender and Friedman (2018). In line with their work, we suggest the inclusion of the following points for such statements:

- evaluation logistics
  - number of evaluators used
  - the split of samples across evaluators (e.g. does everyone rate every sample)
  - recruitment method used (e.g. internal emails, posters or crowdsourcing)
  - compensation given to evaluators (e.g. gift cards and cash - additionally, the choice to not monetarily compensate evaluators should also be divulged)

- evaluator demographic information
  - age (e.g. range, group or generation)
  - language proficiency & “native” language (L1)
  - gender
  - cultural background (e.g. religion, political leaning, country of origin and general education level)
  - task proficiency (i.e. expert or layperson)

- evaluation process
  - clear and operationalised definitions of the evaluated phenomena (with explicit mention if a term with a largely accepted definition is being used in a non-standard way)
  - amendments made in light of potential pilot studies
  - training materials and examples of criteria given to evaluators

- agreement study (i.e. reporting inter-annotator agreement)

While the language proficiency of the participants is relevant to all tasks, we recognise that other characteristics such as gender and cultural background (e.g. religion and political leaning) may not always apply. Still, it would be beneficial to report which facets were taken into consideration, as they may become relevant in hindsight, and in the case of dataset annotations, facilitate more extensive use of any collected data in future works. Similarly, task proficiency may sometimes seem irrelevant for subjective and intuitive tasks. However, Iskender et al. (2021) and Lloret et al. (2018) demonstrate the preference of expert evaluators for complex linguistic tasks. Additionally, authors may be reluctant to present only moderate agreement for subjective tasks due to concerns regarding evaluation quality. However, this criterion is highly relevant as it describes the expected degree of subjectivity for a task, a concept the community should be able to embrace. In addition to these points, we also encourage increased interest in the area of perspectivist approaches to the study of these language forms, and in NLP as a whole. Finally, the intentional omission of many of these criteria (such as IAA and language proficiency, in particular) may be considered intentionally deceptive, and therefore at odds with the foundations of open science.

## 6 Conclusion

In conclusion, we reiterate the importance of the role that Human Evaluation plays in assessing the outputs of Natural Language Generation systems. We have further demonstrated why particular types of language such as humour, irony, and sarcasm demand additional attention to be paid during the construction of human evaluation processes, particularly as it pertains to the demographic variables of selected evaluators. In no way do we discourage the use of the “non-native” or L2+ speakers of a target language in such evaluation (or any other minority demographic), nor do we likewise encourage the use of “native” or L1 target-language speakers (or any other majority demographic) as the true “gold standard”. Rather, we aim to encourage additional thoughts and reflections in the community when selecting panels of human evaluators for such language, analysing results in light of their demographic characteristics as a feature, rather than a bug, whilst openly reporting such decisions wherever possible. To this end, we provide a list of suggested points that can be included as part of an “evaluation statement”. Additionally, we advocate for the use of stratified sampling techniques to gain more varied evaluator panels.
