David Gros, Yu Li, and Zhou Yu. 2022. Robots-dont-cry: Understanding falsely anthropomorphic utterances in dialog systems. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 3266–3284, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

He He, Nanyun Peng, and Percy Liang. 2019. Pun generation with surprise. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 1734–1744, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Joseph Henrich, Steven J. Heine, and Ara Norenzayan. 2010. The weirdest people in the world? *Behavioral and Brain Sciences*, 33(2-3):61–83.

Anita Holdcroft. 2007. Gender bias in research: how does it affect evidence based medicine? *Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine*, 100(1):2–3. PMID: 17197669.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, Michael Gamon, and Henry Kautz. 2020. SemEval-2020 task 7: Assessing humor in edited news headlines. In *Proceedings of the Fourteenth Workshop on Semantic Evaluation*, pages 746–758, Barcelona (online). International Committee for Computational Linguistics.

David M. Howcroft, Anya Belz, Miruna-Adriana Clinciu, Dimitra Gkatzia, Sadid A. Hasan, Saad Mahamood, Simon Mille, Emiel van Miltenburg, Sashank Santhanam, and Verena Rieser. 2020. Twenty years of confusion in human evaluation: NLG needs evaluation sheets and standardised definitions. In *Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Natural Language Generation*, pages 169–182, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jessica Huynh, Jeffrey Bigham, and Maxine Eskenazi. 2021. A survey of nlp-related crowdsourcing hits: what works and what does not.

Neslihan Iskender, Tim Polzehl, and Sebastian Möller. 2021. Reliability of human evaluation for text summarization: Lessons learned and challenges ahead. In *Proceedings of the Workshop on Human Evaluation of NLP Systems (HumEval)*, pages 86–96.

Tonglin Jiang, Hao Li, and Yubo Hou. 2019. Cultural differences in humor perception, usage, and implications. *Frontiers in Psychology*, 10.

Valentin Jijkoun and Katja Hofmann. 2009. Generating a non-english subjectivity lexicon: Relations that matter. In *Proceedings of the 12th Conference of the European Chapter of the ACL (EACL 2009)*, pages 398–405.

Faria Binte Kader, Nafisa Hossain Nujat, Tasmia Binte Sogir, Mohsinul Kabir, Hasan Mahmud, and Md Kamrul Hasan. 2023. “when words fail, emojis prevail”: A novel architecture for generating sarcastic sentences with emoji using valence reversal and semantic incongruity. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 4: Student Research Workshop)*, pages 334–351, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Mihir Kale and Abhinav Rastogi. 2020. Text-to-text pre-training for data-to-text tasks. In *Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Natural Language Generation*, pages 97–102, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tiffany J. Lawless, Conor J. O’Dea, Stuart S. Miller, and Donald A. Saucier. 2020. Is it really just a joke? gender differences in perceptions of sexist humor. *Humor (Berlin, Germany)*, 33(2):291–315.

Elena Lloret, Laura Plaza, and Ahmet Aker. 2018. The challenging task of summary evaluation: an overview. *Language Resources and Evaluation*, 52:101–148.

Tyler Loakman, Chen Tang, and Chenghua Lin. 2023. TwistList: Resources and baselines for tongue twister generation. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 579–589, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Fuli Luo, Shunyao Li, Pengcheng Yang, Lei Li, Baobao Chang, Zhifang Sui, and Xu Sun. 2019. Pun-GAN: Generative adversarial network for pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 3388–3393, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Aaron Maladry, Els Lefever, Cynthia Van Hee, and Véronique Hoste. 2022. The limitations of irony detection in dutch social media. *Language Resources and Evaluation*.

J. A. Meaney. 2020. Crossing the line: Where do demographic variables fit into humor detection? In *Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Student Research Workshop*, pages 176–181, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Abhijit Mishra, Tarun Tater, and Karthik Sankaranarayanan. 2019. A modular architecture for unsupervised sarcasm generation. In *Proceedings of the 2019 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing and the 9th international joint conference on natural language processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 6144–6154.

Anirudh Mittal, Yufei Tian, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. AmbiPun: Generating humorous puns with ambiguous context. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 1053–1062, Seattle, United States. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Silviu Oprea, Steven Wilson, and Walid Magdy. 2021. Chandler: An explainable sarcastic response generator. In *Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations*, pages 339–349, Online and
