| Type | Example |
|---|---|
| Irony | 1. “Just found out about the train strike today, guess I’ll have to use my wings and fly there myself.”<br><br>2. “It’s been a great week for dictators. Congrats North Korea and Cuba.”<br><br>3. “Never knew something could be 80% halal... I’ve learned something new I guess.”<br><br>4. “A local fire station has burnt down.” |
| Non-irony | 5. “I went to the hospital yesterday. It was a big building.” |

Table 2: Examples of different forms of verbal irony (excluding sarcasm).

conventions are ubiquitous, many ironic expressions also assume specific (in-group) knowledge that is often only shared within a particular social group. For example, within the statement seen in Example 3, the receiver of the message is required to understand that “halal” is most often used as a binary concept, and therefore something being a “percentage” halal is infeasible, thus requiring additional background knowledge about Islam and its conventions. A single individual can, of course, be a member of several different social groups that share common ideals and knowledge, such as political conviction, free-time activities, or music taste, without even having to consider major cultural or geographical divergences. This simple fact, that irony strongly relies on common(sense) knowledge, makes it an inherently subjective phenomenon, both for detection and the evaluation of generative models. In addition, ironic statements can also rely on situational or contextual knowledge, in which case it is then classified as “situational irony” as opposed to “verbal irony”. An example of situational irony is demonstrated in Example 4, where a fire station burning down is unexpected due to containing multiple resources explicitly for the extinguishing of such fires. According to Wallace et al. (2014), contextual information may even be essential for most humans to recognise most forms of irony. Finally, Example 5 presents a non-ironic statement, where expectations about concepts are not violated, as a hospital is usually assumed to be a large building. Recent works have taken into account the plethora of variables affecting the interpretation of irony, with Frenda et al. (2023) developing a corpus of irony from a perspectivist approach, finding that irony perceptions vary with generation and nationality (even within speakers of the same language).

### 3.3 Sarcasm

Traditional definitions usually consider sarcasm to be a sub-category of irony. In addition to having a strong negative connotation and aggressive tone, this form of verbal irony is intended to ridicule someone or something (Filik et al., 2019). Table 3 presents a selection of sarcastic texts. The clearly aggressive intent inherent in sarcasm is presented in Examples 1 and 2. In Example 1, the intention is to express that someone with seemingly no special qualities is able to have a sense of pride, whilst in Example 2, the choice of the word “marinate” implies that the target of the comment is wearing too much perfume, similar to how meat may marinate in a glaze for many hours before being ready. Examples 3 and 4 present non-sarcastic utterances, with Example 3 being a blatant insult, and Example 4 demonstrating the expected gratitude someone would have if they had been bought a supercar (assuming no deeper contextualised meaning). As sarcasm is considered to be a subcategory of irony, research into irony detection or generation may often include sarcasm, and treats them as one and the same (Jijkoun and Hofmann, 2009; Filatova, 2012; Van Hee, 2017; Maladry et al., 2022). Moreover, studies by Gibbs (1986) and Bryant and Fox Tree (2002) indicate that there is an ongoing semantic shift, where verbal irony is perceived more often as sarcasm in popular use. Recent papers on sarcasm generation (Mishra et al., 2019; Oprea et al., 2021) do not systematically discuss their definition of sarcasm in relation to the concept of verbal irony. However, one has to assume here that sarcasm is synonymous with verbal irony, since it would be suboptimal for generative systems to create content that might ridicule people in a hurtful way. In short, both for pragmatic reasons as well as conceptual changes, it makes sense to consider irony and sarcasm to be the same thing. Thus, the same motivations that make irony subjective apply to sarcasm as well. On top of that, detection and generation tasks concerning sarcasm specifically also demand that evaluators are able to discern the aggressive tone and retrieve the intention of the author or speaker, which can vary significantly. For example, Phillips et al. (2015) find age to be a
