[Figure: Bar chart showing #PAPERS by TASK (DETECTION, GENERATION, OTHER) and language type. Legend: HUMOUR, IRONY, SARCASM, HUMOUR & SARCASM, SARCASM & IRONY. Visible values include DETECTION: 42, 14, 46, 4, 2; GENERATION: 16, 0, 6, 0, 0; OTHER: 2, 1, 2, 0, 0.]

Figure 1: Breakdown of selected papers by NLP task and specific language type (based on the paper titles). These values exclude shared task papers, but include generation papers that are surveys or datasets, which were later removed. The “other” task category refers to papers primarily presenting content such as annotation schema (Pamulapati et al., 2020) and cognitive analyses (Zeng and Li, 2022), among other forms of research in this area we are not directly investigating.

at the Figurative Language Processing workshop at ACL 2020 (Ghosh et al., 2020), Task 7 of SemEval 2020 and 2021 on humour detection (Hossain et al., 2020; Faraj and Abdullah, 2021), a WANLP 2021 shared task on sarcasm detection (Abu Farha et al., 2021), and SemEval-2022 Task 6, also on sarcasm detection (Abu Farha et al., 2022).[^12]

In addition to the works captured by our literature search and the aforementioned shared tasks, it is reasonable to think that the prevalence of recently released Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 would result in further increases in research into this field, now that models are widely available that are able to better handle the generation and explanation of complex topics such as humour. Not explicitly included in this survey, but nevertheless relevant, are also more general works on anthropomorphism in language-based AI agents (Abercrombie et al., 2021; Gros et al., 2022), in which the ability to detect, generate, and respond to humour, irony and sarcasm are paramount if anthropomorphism is deemed desirable (Oprea et al., 2022).

### 4.3 Reporting Transparency

Of the 135 remaining papers, we now move our attention to the 18 focused on generation specifically. All but 1 of the 18 papers found also contained human evaluation, and therefore the remaining 17 papers will form the basis of the following analysis. Following on from earlier sections which motivated the significance of participant variables in the interpretation of these language forms, Table 4 presents the percentage of surveyed papers that report on the following evaluator demographic information: language proficiency, location and nationality, age, gender, education level, and social class.

**Participant Demographics** As Table 4 shows, less than half of the assessed works (7 of 17) reported on *any* demographic information regarding their selected human evaluator panels. Of those that were more transparent in regard to evaluator demographics, language proficiency and location (usually as a proxy for nationality) were the most common detail given. A single paper (Mishra et al., 2019) reported evaluator education.

Importantly, even in those papers which did outline some demographic information, this reporting was frequently crucially inadequate. For example, Oprea et al. (2022) provide the full participant information sheet that was presented, but reduce the demographic information to “We target everyone registered as living in 〈country〉 on the Prolific Academic platform”, where the valuable information of *which* country (or which countries) is redacted. Additionally, the one paper that reported education (Mishra et al., 2019) was only to the extent that the two evaluators “had a better understanding of the language and socio-cultural diversities” - a statement that may range from meaning native speakers of the target language in the desired culture, to people with doctorates in sociology. None of the surveyed papers outlined evaluator age, gender or social class.

**Recruitment** As can be seen in Table 5, 12 of the 17 surveyed papers contained explicit mention of participant recruitment methods. Upon further investigation into these cases, we find that all 12 instances concern the use of crowdsourcing platforms, of which 9 are Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT), 2 are Prolific Academic (Oprea et al., 2021, 2022), and one does not explicitly mention the platform (Tian et al., 2022). Of these 12 papers that report on recruitment, compensation amounts are reported in less than half (5 papers), ranging from approximately

[^12]: As expected, all shared tasks were on detection rather than generation, due to the more simple nature of evaluation for a shared task environment.
