## Acknowledgements

This work was partially supported by NSF IIS-2137396, IIS-2142827, IIS-2234058, and their REU programs. We also appreciate the support from the Foundation Models and Applications Lab of Lucy Institute and ND-IBM Tech Ethics Lab.

## References

Issa Annamoradnejad and Gohar Zoghi. 2020. Colbert: Using bert sentence embedding for humor detection. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.12765*, 1(3).

Ashwin Baluja. 2025. Text is not all you need: Multimodal prompting helps LLMs understand humor. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 9–17, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yi Cao, Jiahao Cao, Yubo Hou, and Li-Jun Ji. 2025. How humorous is ai? exploring chatgpt’s role in humor generation and human-ai interaction. *Computers in Human Behavior Reports*, 20:100807.

Lukas Christ, Shahin Amiriparian, Alexander Kathan, Niklas Müller, Andreas König, and Björn W. Schuller. 2025. Towards multimodal prediction of spontaneous humor: A novel dataset and first results. *IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing*, 16(2):844–860.

Lukas Christ, Shahin Amiriparian, Andreas König, Simone Eulitz, Erik Cambria, and Björn W. Schuller. 2024. Muse ’24: The 5th multimodal sentiment analysis challenge and workshop: Social perception & humor. In *Proceedings of the 5th on Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Challenge and Workshop: Social Perception and Humor*, MuSe ’24, page 10–11, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Tamás Grósz, Anja Virkkunen, Dejan Porjazovski, and Mikko Kurimo. 2023. Discovering relevant subspaces of bert, wav2vec 2.0, electra and vit embeddings for humor and mimicked emotion recognition with integrated gradients. In *Proceedings of the 4th on Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Challenge and Workshop: Mimicked Emotions, Humour and Personalisation*, MuSe ’23, page 27–34, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Lee Hyun, Kim Sung-Bin, Seungju Han, Youngjae Yu, and Tae-Hyun Oh. 2023. Smile: A multimodal dataset for understanding laughter. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.09818*.

Narendra Nath Joshi. 2025. Evaluating human perception and bias in AI-generated humor. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 79–87, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Michal Kolomaznik, Vladimir Petrik, Michal Slama, and Vojtech Jurik. 2024. The role of socio-emotional attributes in enhancing human-ai collaboration. *Frontiers in psychology*, 15:1369957.

Joshua Lee, Wyatt Fong, Alexander Lee, Sur Shah, Kevin Han, and Kevin Zhu. 2025. Pragmatic metacognitive prompting improves LLM performance on sarcasm detection. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 63–70, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jens Lemmens and Victor De Marez. 2026. Computational humor modeling: A survey on the state of the art. *ACM Comput. Surv.*, 58(7).

Da Li, Rafal Rzepka, Michal Ptaszynski, and Kenji Araki. 2020. Hemos: A novel deep learning-based fine-grained humor detecting method for sentiment analysis of social media. *Information Processing and Management*, 57(6):102290.

Vittorio Marone. 2025. The algorithm is the message: Computing as a humor-generating mode. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 96–100, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Rod A Martin and Thomas Ford. 2006. The psychology of humor. *Burlington, MA: Elsevier*, 2.

Piotr Mirowski, Kory Mathewson, and Boyd Branch. 2025. The theater stage as laboratory: Review of real-time comedy LLM systems for live performance. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 88–95, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Stefan Olafsson, Teresa K. O’Leary, and Timothy W. Bickmore. 2020. Motivating health behavior change with humorous virtual agents. In *Proceedings of the 20th ACM International Conference on Intelligent Virtual Agents*, IVA ’20, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Yash Raj Sarrof. 2025. Homophonic pun generation in code mixed Hindi English. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 23–31, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Ankit Kumar Singh, Ganghyun Kim, Jaeheon Kim, Homin Park, Bong Jun Choi, and Wesley De Neve. 2024. Exploring multimodal approaches and fusion methods for ceo social attribute prediction in 2024 muse-perception. In *Proceedings of the 5th on Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Challenge and Workshop: Social Perception and Humor*, pages 36–44.

Stephen Skalicky and Salvatore Attardo. 2025. Testing humor theory using word and sentence embeddings. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 58–62, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
