# Re-defining Humor Data Objects for AI Humor Research

**Anna Arnett, Bang Nguyen, Meng Jiang**  
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Notre Dame

## Abstract

In most existing AI humor research, humor was treated as either “present” or “not present.” We explore the concept of humor as a social interaction with context and explanations. During this project, we defined a *humor reasoning* data object and developed a way to prompt LLMs to generate an explanation of humor effective for general population. We iterated from an earlier prompt to an improved prompt, found that the later version reduced important errors, and then scaled generation to a large number of data objects which have the potential to enable data synthesis and data augmentation for AI humor research. Our main takeaway is that better prompting of an LLM improves humor explanation quality, especially by handling missing context, multi-modality, and transcript issues more carefully. These results establish a strong foundation for future work on AI understanding of humor as social behavior. All code and data are available at: https://github.com/anna-arnett/ai-humor/

## 1 Introduction

Existing work on evaluating and studying the AI’s understanding of humor represented humor as a textual object; thus, humor detection was a binary classification task, and humor datasets were binary labels on texts (Weller and Seppi, 2019; Annamoradnejad and Zoghi, 2020). However, in psychological research, humor is defined as *social behavior* (Martin and Ford, 2006), which is a fundamental tool for social interaction, communication, relationship building, and the establishment of group norms. In this work, we make multi-fold contributions: we think outside the binary-classification box, re-define the “humor” data object from the perspectives of social roles involved in the interaction, build a novel dataset for multiple new humor-related tasks, and comprehensively study AI’s ability of understanding humor. Our preliminary work focused on two concrete milestones: outlining the ideal structure of a humor data point, and prompting an LLM to generate this data point. The next step will be generating large-scale humor reasoning data objects, and validating their usefulness in data synthesis and data augmentation for building humor-related AI models. For example, by prompting to change key concept in a humor reasoning data object, one can create a humor alternative or a non-humor data point where the modification destroys the reasoning. Training such synthetic data may improve the performance of humor detection.

## 2 Related Work

### 2.1 Humor Capabilities in AI and LLMs

The literature has provided a strong motivation for investigating and enabling humor capacity in AI systems. While humor understanding tasks test an AI’s ability to recognize and explain humor from textual descriptions, generation tasks investigate the quality and social appropriateness of AI content (Lemmens and De Marez, 2026). More recent advances have integrated additional modalities beyond text into these applications, such as images (Cao et al., 2025), video, and speech recordings (Christ et al., 2025).

AI humor has implications for various domains. Studies have demonstrated the potential adoption of AI humor for screenwriting and news writing (Toplyn and Amir, 2025; Mirowski et al., 2025). When equipped with a humorous personality, AI systems are found to be likable (Olafsson et al., 2020; Cao et al., 2025) and trustworthy (Marone, 2025; Kolomaznik et al., 2024), which in turn provides meaningful implications for their application as mental health assistants (Olafsson et al., 2020). Recognizing these diverse applications, we are interested in defining a well-informed data object that facilitates more systematic AI humor research.
