Amir Zadeh, Michael Chan, Paul Pu Liang, Edmund Tong, and Louis-philippe Morency. 2019. Social-IQ : A Question Answering Benchmark for Artificial Social Intelligence. In *CVPR*, pages 8807–8817.

Nima Zargham, Vino Avanesi, Leon Reicherts, Ava Elizabeth Scott, Yvonne Rogers, and Rainer Malaka. 2023. “funny how?” a serious look at humor in conversational agents. In *Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Conversational User Interfaces*, pages 1–7.

## A Labels Creation

Every word was tagged so that its label means that the agent should laugh right after it, or that is should continue to laugh. With this method, the agent can predict when to start and stop laughing, before it actually happens to the audience. For each laughter segment with start $t_0$ and end $t_1$, we first locate the “start” word by finding the word whose timing window either overlaps or immediately follows the laughter’s $t_0$; similarly we find the “end” word around $t_1$. If both boundaries fall on the same word, that word is labeled positive. Otherwise, all the words in between are tagged as positive.

## B Candidate Laughter Selection

**Acoustic Features** The acoustic features extracted can be categorized into several groups, including temporal characteristics such as duration, voiced ratio, voiced frames, burst count, and temporal centroid. Additionally, features related to energy and amplitude were extracted, including rms mean, rms standard deviation, rms slope, energy at the 90th percentile, and root mean square (rms). Spectral features were also considered, comprising spectral bandwidth, spectral rolloff at 85% and 95%, spectral flatness, spectral contrast, and spectral centroid. Furthermore, pitch-related features such as pitch median, pitch standard deviation, and harmonics-to-noise ratio (hnr) were included, along with modulation energy between 4-12 Hz. The feature set was further enriched with chroma features (chroma 1-12), Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (mfcc 1-13), and their first and second derivatives (delta mfcc 1-13 and delta2 mfcc 1-13), providing a detailed representation of the audio signals’ spectral and temporal properties.

**Classifier** Once the acoustic features were extracted and verified, a two-stage pipeline was implemented: **verification** and **classification**.

In the verification stage, all audio segments with a duration shorter than 0.5 seconds were discarded and classified as ‘*other*’. These cases were not considered in the evaluation of the model’s performance.

Subsequently, a *Random Forest* classifier was applied. For hyperparameter tuning, 15% of the dataset was randomly selected, focusing on the parameters `n_estimators`, `max_depth`, and `min_samples_split`, whose optimal values were 50, 13, and 2, respectively.

With the selected hyperparameters, 200 iterations were performed, varying the training/testing split in each run, while consistently using 15% of the data for validation.

The classifier was designed as a binary model, distinguishing between the *laughter* and *non-laughter* classes. The latter included events such as fillers, claps, silence, and general noise.

The 95% confidence intervals for the performance metrics obtained were as follows:

## C Correcting Timestamp Errors

Table 6 shows the principal of the algorithm we used to correct the timestamps errors of WhisperX and Whisper around outbursts of laughter.

## D ASR-based Acoustic Laughter Detection

We validate the ASR-based Acoustic Laughter Detection method on the manually annotated test set. We used the Intersection over Union to validate the quality of the predictions. Using a threshold of 0.2, we obtained the results in Table 7.

## E Humor Detection on the Automatic Test Set

The performances of the model on the test set, when using automatic laughter detection (not manual) are shown in Table 4. The performances are 14 points lower than when comparing with the ground truth. This means that, even though trained with weak labels, the system achieves to detect the real humor case.
