# StandUp4AI: A New Multilingual Dataset for Humor Detection in Stand-up Comedy Videos

**Valentin Barriere**<sup>*</sup>  
Universidad de Chile – DCC  
Santiago, Chile  
vbarriere@dcc.uchile.cl

**Nahuel Gomez**  
Universidad de Chile – DIE  
Santiago, Chile  
nahuel.gomez@ug.uchile.cl

**Leo Hemamou**  
Without Affiliation  
Paris, France  
l.hemamou@gmail.com

**Sofia Callejas**  
INRIA Chile  
Santiago, Chile  
sofia.callejas@inria.cl

**Brian Ravenet**<sup>*</sup>  
Université Paris Saclay – LISN  
Orsay, France  
brian.ravenet@universite-paris-saclay.fr

## Abstract

Aiming towards improving current computational models of humor detection, we propose a new multimodal dataset of stand-up comedies, in seven languages: English, French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Hungarian and Czech. Our dataset of more than 330 hours is automatically annotated in laughter (from the audience), and the subpart left for model validation is manually annotated. Contrary to contemporary approaches, we do not frame the task of humor detection as a binary sequence classification, but as word-level sequence labeling, in order to take into account all the context of the sequence and to capture the continuous joke tagging mechanism typically occurring in natural conversations. As par with unimodal baselines results, we propose a method for e propose a method to enhance the automatic laughter detection based on Audio Speech Recognition errors. Our code and data are available online: https://tinyurl.com/EMNLPHumourStandUpPublic

## 1 Introduction and Related Works

Humor detection remains a challenging tasks for computer systems (Kalloniatis and Adamidis, 2024; Hyun et al., 2024). Yet, such mechanisms could be a massive improvement, in particular for conversational interactive systems such as chatbots and socially interactive agents. These kind of systems, which are designed to simulate a natural human-like conversation and its structure (Ludusan and Schuppler, 2022), often struggle to identify or handle humorous attempts from the user, leading to inefficient and frustrating experiences (Zargham et al., 2023). While different theories of humor exist, most of them have in common the idea that humor emerges when the current situation surprisingly deviates from our expectations (Warren and McGraw, 2016). Generally, a joke or funny story is based on the following sequence : the setup of a joke introduces some expectations on how a story usually ends and the punchline reveals the reality and the unexpected (and funny) twist of the story (Martin and Ford, 2018). Sometimes, additional funny comments called *tags* can be added around and after the punchline to maintain the momentum of the laughter. Conversational humor often stems from unexpected deviations in content, behavior, or context, with timing and intensity being critical yet unpredictable triggers (Wyer and Collins, 1992). Despite theoretical models, comedians rely on live testing to refine timing, phrasing, and delivery for audience engagement (Raskin, 1979), as responses depend on cultural and contextual factors. This highlights the complexity of modeling humor computationally, necessitating diverse datasets to capture its multifaceted dynamics. Stand-up comedy, due to its nature aiming at recreating the spontaneity of everyday conversational humor, is a great context for studying these mechanisms and structures with computers.

Many previous works investigating computational techniques to process humor relied on corpus of people speaking in less natural and more conventional and standardized ways. For instance, in (Purandare and Litman, 2006; Bertero and Fung, 2016; Patro et al., 2021; Liu et al., 2024), the authors relied on acted data from sitcoms. The UR-FUNNY and Ted Laughter (Hasan et al., 2019; Chen and Lee, 2017) datasets are composed of TED talks, which contain less outbursts of laughter and poorer language diversity than stand-up comedy. Most of the work participating in The MuSE challenges for the automatic estimation of humor are relying on public interviews (Amiriparian et al., 2023, 2024), using the Passau-Spontaneous Football Coach Humour dataset (Christ et al., 2022). Additionally,

\*Same supervision
