the date of today, StandUp4AI. We propose baseline results on the tasks of laughter prediction approached as a sequence labeling task, highlighting the interest of the diversity contained in our dataset. On top of this, we show the interest of a simple yet efficient technique enhancing a state-of-the-art automatic laughter detection method, that we successfully validate with manual annotations and by using it to train a humor detection model. The results highlighted the potential of our dataset for the development of computational models of humor.

## 5 Limitations

This work faces several limitations. First the humor detection task only focuses on unimodal textual model for now. This is by design as we decided to focus on unimodal approach in order to acquire initial results before moving towards multimodal models in future works.

Second, we do not take into account different intensity of the laughter. This is because there is a significant variability in acoustic intensity in the collected videos. We plan to address this, by performing at least a normalization, and to include this additional dimension in future steps.

Third, a more thorough analysis of the ASR errors would be beneficial. Dialect languages such as Mexican or Chilean Spanish can be challenging for the speech-to-text models, especially for discourses where slang and vulgarity play a big part. However, we believe that this is a small portion of the whole dataset and does not impact its global quality.

Finally, the paper relies on Youtube Videos that can be subject to deletion. However, we do not release neither the video nor audio content, just the metadata and annotations, like other famous corpora (Zadeh et al., 2020, 2019; Hasan et al., 2019).

## References

Martín Abadi, Paul Barham, Jianmin Chen, Zhifeng Chen, Andy Davis, Jeffrey Dean, Matthieu Devin, Sanjay Ghemawat, Geoffrey Irving, Michael Isard, Manjunath Kudlur, Josh Levenberg, Rajat Monga, Sherry Moore, Derek G. Murray, Benoit Steiner, Paul Tucker, Vijay Vasudevan, Pete Warden, Martin Wicke, Yuan Yu, and Xiaoqiang Zheng. 2016. TensorFlow: A system for large-scale machine learning. *Proceedings of the 12th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, OSDI 2016*, pages 265–283.

Shahin Amiriparian, Lukas Christ, Alexander Kathan, Maurice Gerczuk, Niklas Müller, Steffen Klug, Lukas Stappen, Andreas König, Erik Cambria, Björn Schuller, and Simone Eulitz. 2024. The MuSe 2024 Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Challenge: Social Perception and Humor Recognition.

Shahin Amiriparian, Lukas Christ, Andreas König, Alan Cowen, Eva Maria Meßner, Erik Cambria, and Björn W. Schuller. 2023. MuSe 2023 Challenge: Multimodal Prediction of Mimicked Emotions, Cross-Cultural Humour, and Personalised Recognition of Affects. *MM 2023 - Proceedings of the 31st ACM International Conference on Multimedia*, pages 9723–9725.

Max Bain, Jaesung Huh, Tengda Han, and Andrew Zisserman. 2023. WhisperX: Time-Accurate Speech Transcription of Long-Form Audio. *Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication Association, INTERSPEECH*, 2023-August:4489–4493.

Dario Bertero and Pascale Fung. 2016. Deep Learning of Audio and Language Features for Humor Prediction. *Lrec*, pages 496–501.

Brian McFee, Colin Raffel, Dawen Liang, Daniel P.W. Ellis, Matt McVicar, Eric Battenberg, and Oriol Nieto. 2015. librosa: Audio and Music Signal Analysis in Python. In *Proceedings of the 14th Python in Science Conference*, pages 18 – 24.

Brandon Castellano. 2014. Pyscenedetect.

Di Chang, Yufeng Yin, Zongjian Li, Minh Tran, and Mohammad Soleymani. 2024. LibreFace: An Open-Source Toolkit for Deep Facial Expression Analysis. *Proceedings - 2024 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision, WACV 2024*, pages 8190–8200.

Dushyant Singh Chauhan, Gopendra Vikram Singh, Navonil Majumder, Amir Zadeh, Asif Ekbal, Pushpak Bhattacharyya, Louis Philippe Morency, and Soujanya Poria. 2021. M2H2: A Multimodal Multiparty Hindi Dataset for Humor Recognition in Conversations. *ICMI 2021 - Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference on Multimodal Interaction*, pages 773–777.

Kai Chen, Jiaqi Wang, Jiangmiao Pang, Yuhang Cao, Yu Xiong, Xiaoxiao Li, Shuyang Sun, Wansen Feng, Ziwei Liu, Jiarui Xu, Zheng Zhang, Dazhi Cheng, Chenchen Zhu, Tianheng Cheng, Qijie Zhao, Buyu Li, Xin Lu, Rui Zhu, Yue Wu, Jifeng Dai, Jingdong Wang, Jianping Shi, Wanli Ouyang, Chen Change Loy, and Dahua Lin. 2019. MMDetection: Open mmlab detection toolbox and benchmark. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.07155.*

Lei Chen and Chong Min Lee. 2017. Predicting audience’s laughter during presentations using convolutional neural network. *EMNLP 2017 - 12th Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, BEA 2017 - Proceedings of the Workshop*, (c):86–90.
