Akshat Choube and Mohammad Soleymani. 2020. Punchline Detection using Context-Aware Hierarchical Multimodal Fusion. *ICMI 2020 - Proceedings of the 2020 International Conference on Multimodal Interaction*, pages 675–679.

Lukas Christ, Shahin Amiriparian, Alexander Kathan, Niklas Müller, Andreas König, and Björn W. Schuller. 2022. Multimodal Prediction of Spontaneous Humour: A Novel Dataset and First Results. XX(X):1–18.

MMPose Contributors. 2020. Openmmlab pose estimation toolbox and benchmark. https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmpose.

Jon Gillick, Wesley Deng, Kimiko Ryokai, and David Bamman. 2021. Robust Laughter Detection in Noisy Environments. In *Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication Association, INTERSPEECH*, volume 1, pages 736–740. International Speech Communication Association.

Md Kamrul Hasan, Wasifur Rahman, Amir Zadeh, Jianyan Zhong, Md Iftekhar Tanveer, Louis-Philippe Morency, Mohammed, and Hoque. 2019. UR-FUNNY: A Multimodal Language Dataset for Understanding Humor.

Lee Hyun, Kim Sung-Bin, Seungju Han, Youngjae Yu, and Tae Hyun Oh. 2024. SMILE: Multimodal Dataset for Understanding Laughter with Language Models. *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2024 - Findings*, pages 1149–1167.

Antonios Kalloniatis and Panagiotis Adamidis. 2024. Computational humor recognition: a systematic literature review. *Artificial Intelligence Review*, 58(2):43.

Diederik Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2014. Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization. *International Conference on Learning Representations*, pages 1–13.

Anna Kuznetsova and Carlo Strapparava. 2024. Multimodal and Multilingual Laughter Detection in Stand-Up Comedy Videos. *2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation, LREC-COLING 2024 - Main Conference Proceedings*, pages 11884–11889.

Guillaume Lample and Alexis Conneau. 2019. Cross-lingual Language Model Pretraining.

Zhi Song Liu, Robin Courant, and Vicky Kalogeiton. 2024. FunnyNet-W: Multimodal Learning of Funny Moments in Videos in the Wild. *International Journal of Computer Vision*, 132(8):2885–2906.

Bogdan Ludusan and Barbara Schuppler. 2022. To laugh or not to laugh? The use of laughter to mark discourse structure. *SIGDIAL 2022 - 23rd Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, Proceedings of the Conference*, pages 76–82.

Rod A Martin and Thomas Ford. 2018. *The psychology of humor: An integrative approach.* Academic press.

Hiroki Nakayama. 2018. {seqeval}: A Python framework for sequence labeling evaluation.

Taisei Omine, Kenta Akita, and Reiji Tsuruno. 2024. Robust Laughter Segmentation with Automatic Diverse Data Synthesis. In *Interspeech*, September, pages 4748–4752.

Badri N. Patro, Mayank Lunayach, Deepankar Srivastava, Sarvesh Sarvesh, Hunar Singh, and Vinay P. Namboodiri. 2021. Multimodal humor dataset: Predicting laughter tracks for sitcoms. *Proceedings - 2021 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision, WACV 2021*, pages 576–585.

Fabian Pedregosa, Gaël Varoquaux, Alexandre Gramfort, Vincent Michel, Bertrand Thirion, Olivier Grisel, Mathieu Blondel, Peter Prettenhofer, Ron Weiss, Vincent Dubourg, Jake Vanderplas, Alexandre Passos, David Cournapeau, Matthieu Brucher, Matthieu Perrot, and Édouard Duchesnay. 2012. Scikit-learn: Machine Learning in Python. *Journal of Machine Learning Research*, 12:2825–2830.

Amruta Purandare and Diane Litman. 2006. Humor : Prosody Analysis and Automatic Recognition for F * R * I * E * N * D * S *. In *EMNLP*, July, pages 208–215.

Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Tao Xu, Greg Brockman, Christine McLeavey, and Ilya Sutskever. 2023. Robust Speech Recognition via Large-Scale Weak Supervision. *Proceedings of Machine Learning Research*, 202:28492–28518.

Victor Raskin. 1979. Semantic mechanisms of humor. In *Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society*, pages 325–335.

Beatrice Turano and Carlo Strapparava. 2022. Making People Laugh like a Pro: Analysing Humor Through Stand-Up Comedy. *2022 Language Resources and Evaluation Conference, LREC 2022*, (June):5206–5211.

Caleb Warren and A Peter McGraw. 2016. Differentiating what is humorous from what is not. *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology*, 110(3):407.

Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, and Jamie Brew. 2019. HuggingFace’s Transformers: State-of-the-art Natural Language Processing.

Robert S Wyer and James E Collins. 1992. A theory of humor elicitation. *Psychological review*, 99(4):663.

Amir Zadeh, Yan Sheng Cao, Simon Hessner, Paul Pu Liang, Soujanya Poria, and Louis-philippe Morency. 2020. CMU-MOSEAS : A Multimodal Language Dataset for Spanish , Portuguese , German and French. In *EMNLP*, volume 1, pages 1801–1812.
