<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Youtube Channels</th>
<th>Language</th>
<th>Videos</th>
<th>Hours</th>
<th>Words</th>
<th>Laughter</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Comedy Central</td>
<td rowspan="2">English</td>
<td>263</td>
<td>51.2</td>
<td>442,904</td>
<td>25,772</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Comedy Central UK</td>
<td>319</td>
<td>18.6</td>
<td>174,369</td>
<td>13,486</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Comedy Central Latam</td>
<td rowspan="2">Spanish</td>
<td>971</td>
<td>59.2</td>
<td>499,329</td>
<td>21,708</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Comedy Central España</td>
<td>404</td>
<td>18.0</td>
<td>150,256</td>
<td>5,215</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Comedy Central Italia</td>
<td>Italian</td>
<td>567</td>
<td>55.0</td>
<td>433,417</td>
<td>12,248</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Comedy Central Magyarország</td>
<td>Hungarian</td>
<td>73</td>
<td>11.4</td>
<td>78,002</td>
<td>6,875</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Paramount Network CZ</td>
<td>Czech</td>
<td>123</td>
<td>11.5</td>
<td>75,806</td>
<td>6,129</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Montreux Comedy</td>
<td>French</td>
<td>652</td>
<td>86.0</td>
<td>814,727</td>
<td>26,789</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Comedy Central Brasil</td>
<td>Portuguese</td>
<td>245</td>
<td>23.4</td>
<td>218,592</td>
<td>9,972</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Total</strong></td>
<td><strong>MLing</strong></td>
<td><strong>3,617</strong></td>
<td><strong>334.2</strong></td>
<td><strong>2,887,402</strong></td>
<td><strong>128,194</strong></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 1: The collection of videos retained for the dataset. Laughter is the number of words labeled as laughter.

trates the quantity of videos collected per channel and per language. On each channels, we excluded videos from the *Youtube Shorts* section and videos where more than one comedian appeared.

## 2.2 Automatic laughter detection

The next step was to run a task of automatic laughter detection on the videos. The detected laughter would be used to identify and automatically annotate funny events in the performance. We originally based this task on the approach of Kuznetsova and Strapparava (2024), who used an off-the-shelf model (Gillick et al., 2021). In our case, we used the state-of-the-art model of Omine et al. (2024), which has shown better performances for this task.

## 2.3 Transcript extraction

We perform transcript extraction on each sample using two Audio Speech Recognition (ASR): Whisper (Radford et al., 2023) and WhisperX (Bain et al., 2023). These tools allowed us to obtain the timestamped full script of the comedians’ performance.

## 2.4 ASR-Based Automatic Laughter Detection

**Error Detection** The timestamps obtained from the ASR were inconsistent for words around events such as laughters and "mouth noises" that activate the ASR’s voice activity detection. Such words were frequently assigned an incorrect begin or end timestamps, as the laughter duration would be added to the word duration (and the laughter not detected). As this would make the data unreliable to build our model, we engineered a correction by aggregating the outputs of both Whisper and WhisperX. When laughters are perturbating the timestamps of surrounding words, Whisper tends to merge the laughter duration with the next word while WhisperX tends to merge it with the previous one (see Table 6 in Appendix). To fix this, we first searched for the longer-in-time words, and checked for intersections between both transcripts. Once found, we kept the begin and end timestamps of the intersection to insert a new laughter in the resulting transcript, and we removed the intersection from the previous and next word timestamps. This method provides a solution to the problem of erroneous timestamps, and extract potential candidates not discovered by the initial laughter detector.

**Automatic Candidate Laughter Validation** In order to select or not a candidate laughter, we manually annotated the candidates detected in 50 videos with respect to whether or not they were real laughter. We subsequently train a Random Forest classifier on these examples using classical acoustic features. More details are available in Appendix B.

## 2.5 Laughter Detection as Sequence Labeling

We prepare the task of laughter prediction as a sequence labeling task, motivated by the idea that a simple sentence can contains many humorous events that would expect laughter. Each word was labeled with a binary tag indicating whether laughter occurs right after it and before the end of next word. In this way, the model predicts in advance if there will be a laughter event. Further details are provided in Appendix A.

## 2.6 Test Set Annotation

Following the protocol of Kuznetsova and Strapparava (2024), we manually annotate a test set composed of 70 videos (10 per language). These samples have been manually annotated in laughs with precise timestamps at 0.1 seconds, using the audio file and audacity. The ASR outputs have been manually checked to ensure that the labels are true. The test set is used to validate both the laughter detec-
