| Lang. | Laughters | CS | EN | ES | FR | HU | IT | PT | Avg. |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Multiling. | Raw | 47.4 | 40.4 | 41.4 | 41.8 | 48.4 | 39.5 | 36.8 | 42.2 |
|  | Enhanced | 47.1 | 40.3 | 40.4 | 42.4 | 48.7 | 39.5 | 38.1 | **42.4** |
| Monoling. | Enhanced | 41.8 | 38.4 | 37.4 | 42.6 | 45.4 | 35.6 | 34.4 | 39.4 |

Table 2: F1 scores by model language and data. Enhanced means trained with laughter from our ASR-based method.

tion method based on the ASR outputs and acoustic classifier, and the sequence labeling models.

### 2.7 Other Features

Even though we did not add them in the current baseline experiments, we also release a set of features we extracted from the data. We extracted Action Units using the `LibreFace` library (Chang et al., 2024), poses using the `MMdetection` and `MMpose` libraries (Chen et al., 2019; Contributors, 2020), and the camera angle changes using PySceneDetect library (Castellano, 2014). We release these features with the data and plan to investigate how they can contribute to the task in future works.

## 3 Experiments and Results

We conducted two types of experiments. The first validate the proposed technique to find new outbursts of laughter that were not detected using the off-the-shelf model of Omine et al. (2024). The second is the sequence labeling task.

### 3.1 ASR-based Laughter Detection Validation

Using the proposed method, we obtained 376 outburst candidates on 50 videos that were manually annotated into real laughter or other event. 208 of them were real outbursts of laughter non previously detected by the off-the-shelf laughter detection model. We extracted acoustic features with librosa (Brian McFee et al., 2015) and trained a random forests to binary detect an outburst. Results are shown in Table 3. The overall method allows detecting approximately 3 new outbursts of laughter per video. More details on the features and models are available in Appendix B.

|  | Prec. | Rec. | F1 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Other | 0.79 | 0.87 | 0.82 |
| Laughter | 0.89 | 0.81 | 0.85 |
| Macro | 0.84 | 0.84 | 0.83 |

Table 3: Performances of the Random Forest Candidate Laughter Classifier

We validate the whole laughter detection system on the manually annotated test set task with the Intersection over Union (IoU). With a IoU threshold of 0.2,[^2] we obtained a F1-score of 0.51 using the off-the-shelf model, versus a F1-score of 0.58 using our method. More details in Appendix D.

### 3.2 Sequence Labeler

We trained unimodal pretrained transformer models (Lample and Conneau, 2019) based on the text input in order to predict laughter at the word-level in a binary way. A maximum sequence length of 512 was used with a stripe of 128 when cutting from the same monologue to ensure past context. We optimized it with Adam (Kingma and Ba, 2014), 10 epochs, and a learning rate of 1e − 5. We validate the models with classification metrics and not rigid sequence classification metrics such as sequeval (Nakayama, 2018) because of the task difficulty.

**Experimental Protocol** The transformers library (Wolf et al., 2019) was used to access the pre-trained `xlm-roberta-base` and to fine-tune sequence labeling models. The random forests were trained using scikit-learn (Pedregosa et al., 2012). Experiments were run using torch 2.1.2 (Abadi et al., 2016), transformers 4.46.3 (Wolf et al., 2019), a GPU Nvidia RTX-A6000 and CUDA 12.2.

**Results** Results are shown in Table 2. First, the multilingual models trained with the raw outputs obtained from Omine et al. (2024)’s laughter detection (Raw) and the ASR-based one (Enhanced) are compared. Results show that the models trained on the cleaned data are reaching higher performances, indicating a second time the quality of it, as the proposed treatment helps to enhance the quality of the data as training material. Second, the results of the multilingual model are compared with the ones of the monolingual models, highlighting the interest of the diversity of our corpus.

## 4 Conclusion

In this article we presented the most diverse dataset of multilingual stand-up comedy performance at

[^2]: if IoU > 0.2, prediction is considered as positive
