ison of @K metrics shows even more significant differences, particularly for SentBERT @0.5 and ROSCOE @0.8, where the performance margin ranges from 0.1 (BART) to 0.27 (GPT-3.5) compared to the text-only baselines. This means that using transcripts alone may not be sufficient to understand the humor in our videos.

### 5.3 Results of Rationale Quality Scores

We conduct a rationale quality experiment following Wiegreffe et al. (2021) and Sun et al. (2022). Since our dataset consists of videos, unlike theirs, we adapt the experimentation scheme by evaluating the rationale quality through a moment localization task, which aims at predicting funny moments defined by their start and end timestamps in a video given the text explanation.

We use QD-DETR (Moon et al., 2023) as a localizer and divide the entire dataset into 8:1:1 splits for training (8,110), validation (1,013), and testing (1,013). During the training, the localizer is learned to predict the gold timestamp given a gold explanation. At inference, we compute the rationale quality as the prediction difference of the localizer between when given a model-generated explanation and when given a gold explanation.

Let $M$ be a model-generated explanation, $G$ be a gold explanation, and $\tau$ be a threshold. For each test data point, we calculate the maximum IoU from the top 5 candidates given $M$ or $G$, respectively denoted as $\mathrm{IoU}_M$ or $\mathrm{IoU}_G$. We use the top 5 since there can be at most three funny moments in a single video and the localization predictions can overlap with each other. We compute the difference when $\mathrm{IoU}_M > \tau$. The final score $S$ is the sum of differences for all test data:

$$
S = \sum_{i=1}^{n}(\mathrm{IoU}_{G_i} - \mathrm{IoU}_{M_i}) \cdot \mathbb{1}(\mathrm{IoU}_{M_i} > \tau),
$$

where $n$ is the number of test data points, and $\mathbb{1}(\cdot)$ is the indicator function.

Table 2 shows the results when the IoU threshold $\tau$ is set to 0.3 and 0.5. A lower score is better as it is closer to the gold standard. In each LLM, the performance improves when our prompting is included compared to corresponding text-only ones. In particular, our approach improves GPT-3.5 the most, with the threshold at 0.3 resulting in a score gap of 13.3, and at 0.5, a score gap of 13.2. Again, the performance of all LLMs with our prompting is better than MAF and VideoChat-Text.

[Figure: Bar chart of human preference results with y-axis from 0 to 100. Comparisons labeled GPT-3.5 vs GPT-3.5 w/P, MAF vs GPT-3.5 w/P, and GPT-3.5 w/P vs Gold.]

Figure 4: Results of human preference: comparing GPT-3.5 with our prompting to text-only GPT-3.5, MAF, and Gold, respectively.

### 5.4 Results of Human Evaluations

For human evaluation, we employ 10 AMT workers using the same criteria as in the dataset annotation but excluding the ones who already participated in the annotation. We randomly select 100 videos and evaluate explanations generated by all models except baselines using T5 and VideoChat-Text, which show worse automatic scores than other text-only or multimodal baselines. We obtain human evaluations with two methods: rating and comparison.

For the rating, workers are asked to rate each explanation according to No (0), Weak No (0.25), Neutral (0.5), Weak Yes (0.75), and Yes (1) and check any shortcomings. We ask five workers for each explanation, exclude the highest and lowest scores, and take the average. For the comparison, workers compare GPT-3.5 with our prompting to (1) Text-only GPT-3.5, (2) MAF, and (3) Gold explanations and choose the better explanation. We ask five workers for each pair of comparisons.

The rating results are presented on the far right of Table 2. The scores of BART and GPT-3.5 increase by about 0.1 when our prompting is included. The comparison results are presented in Figure 4. The number of votes for text-only GPT-3.5 is significantly lower than that of GPT-3.5 with our prompting, indicating that visual information is valuable, and our prompting helps convey visual information effectively. In both rating and comparison, MAF shows lower performance than the text-only models despite being a multimodal model. This suggests that providing visual information as text to LLMs could be more effective than training the multimodal model end-to-end. Moreover, GPT-3.5 with our prompting, which shows the best results, still scores lower than Gold, indicating that understanding and explaining the humor in our dataset still remains unsolved.
