[Figure: Screenshot of a web interface titled “Temporal localization & Explanation” for annotating humorous moments in a video. The interface includes an embedded YouTube video titled “Pass the butter robot from Rick a...”, subtitles, timestamp fields, explanation fields, requirements, and a submit button.]

Temporal localization & Explanation

Please enter the shortest possible time range between 1 second and 5 seconds, and explain why the video is funny including visual information and funny remarks in the speech. If there are more than one moments, please add an input field and enter them individually. Filling fields a lot isn't necessarily a good thing. Write only what makes you laugh particularly.

Pass the butter robot from Rick a...

Watch later

Share

Watch on YouTube

For your convenience, we provide video subtitles. This could be wrong.

Video subtitles

What is my purpose? Pass the butter. Thank you. What is my purpose?. You passed butter. Oh my god.

Start time (secon...

20

End time (seconds)

24

Explanation

The robot realizes his entire purpose in 'life' is to "pass butter" and reacts with  
a verbal "oh my God" while slumping in dismay. It's funny, because it's a  
reaction we'd normally attribute to a human and not a robot.

Start time (s...

End time (se...

Explanation

Add field +

If your answer is not being submitted, please check the requirements below.  
1. Start time and end time entered must be less than lenght of the video.  
2. Start time must be less than end time.  
3. Enter the time range as short as possible. (The maximum limit was removed by reflecting the feedback.)  
4. The explanation must be **at least 100 characters**.

(Optional) Please let us know if anything was unclear, if you experienced any issues, or if you have any feedback for us.

Submit

Figure 6: A user interface for annotating timestamps and explanations of humorous moments. Workers are asked to watch a video, identify up to three funny moments, and provide the start/end timestamps along with the explanation for each moment.
