[Figure: four video frames from a dark gameplay scene; below are eye and microphone icons with accompanying text.]

Video showing hostage taker detonating in a crowded mall during the game stealth gameplay mode of multiplayer.

We’ve done it. Hey.

|  |  |
|---|---|
| Funny<br>Utterance w/ V | X |

Figure 9: An example of a video excluded in the second step (Figure 2 (b)) of the filtering pipeline.

[Figure: four video frames including a magnifying glass/insect-world scene; below are eye and microphone icons with accompanying text.]

Video shows a man in the insect world, and it's.

Is that a magnifying glass? Yep.  
Are you feeling warm all of a sudden?

|  |  |
|---|---|
| Funny<br>Utterance w/ V | Are you feeling warm all of a sudden? |
| Funny<br>Utterance w/o V | X |

Figure 11: An example of a video accepted in the third step (Figure 2 (c)) of the filtering pipeline.

[Figure: four cartoon video frames with readable speech bubbles including “Hey why did they call it ‘Mordor’?”, “That place seemed like it had a reasonable number of doors.”, “You know you can't get rid of me”, and “That won't stop me from trying”; below are eye and microphone icons with accompanying text.]

Video shows the brain’s response to a cartoon.

Hey, why did they call it Mordor? That place seemed like it had a reasonable number of doors.  
You know you can't get rid of me. That won't stop me from trying."

|  |  |
|---|---|
| Funny<br>Utterance w/ V | You know you can’t get rid of me. |
| Funny<br>Utterance w/o V | You know you can’t get rid of me. |
| Explanation<br>w/ V | The video is funny because the brain's response to the cartoon is unexpected and the subtitles are humorous. |
| Explanation<br>w/o V | The video is funny because it is a humorous take on the classic fantasy setting of Mordor, with the protagonist's attempts to escape being thwarted by the sheer number of doors. |
| SentBERT score | 0.49 |

Figure 10: An example of a video accepted in the fourth step (Figure 2 (d)) of the filtering pipeline.

[Figure: four video frames of old newspaper pages; readable text includes “DELTA INDEPENDENT” and “DELTA COUNTY, COLORADO”; below are eye and microphone icons with accompanying text.]

Video shows newspaper ads from the time of a century ago.

Alright, what's up everybody? I just randomly stumbled upon this article in an old issue of the Delta Colorado Independent. This is from October 19th, 1923. Someone dreamed the other night that he was living in the year 2023 and people were going on strike because they only got $125 a day while the price of eggs had gone up to $10 a dozen. Ooh, spooky, right?

|  |  |
|---|---|
| Funny<br>Utterance w/ V | Ooh, spooky, right? |
| Funny<br>Utterance w/o V | Ooh, spooky, right? |
| Explanation<br>w/ V | The video is funny because it is a humorous take on the absurdly high prices of eggs in the future compared to the wages of the time. |
| Explanation<br>w/o V | The video is funny because it is absurd to think that people would go on strike for only getting $125 a day in the future, when the price of eggs has gone up to $10 a dozen. |
| SentBERT score | 0.83 |

Figure 12: An example of a video excluded in the fourth step (Figure 2 (d)) of the filtering pipeline.
