of 10,136 user-generated, funny short-form videos. Each video is annotated with timestamps and explanations of funny moments. As compared in Table 1, our ExFunTube is unique over existing datasets in that our videos cover a wide range of domains with various types of humor that necessitate a multimodal understanding of the content.

2. We design a zero-shot video-to-text prompting that converts video content into text to maximize LLMs’ ability to explain video humor.

3. With three different evaluation methods of model-based lexical scores, rationale quality scores, and human evaluations, we verify that our prompting improves LLMs’ performance on humor explanation.

## 2 Related work

**Humor Understanding.** It has been a longstanding question whether AI models can understand humor in text, images, or videos. Early studies focused on classifying whether text (Annamoradnejad and Zoghi, 2020), images (Chandrasekaran et al., 2016), or videos (Hasan et al., 2019; Castro et al., 2019; Patro et al., 2021) are humorous or not. Some studies, such as Chandrasekaran et al. (2016), also rate the degree to which abstract scenes are perceived as humorous. However, binary classifications or ratings do not fully evaluate whether a model understands humor in detail. Recent humor studies have shifted towards having models explain humor. Sun et al. (2022) augment the SemEval 2017 Task 7 (Miller et al., 2017) with funniness ratings and explanations. Hessel et al. (2022) augment the New Yorker cartoon captions with explanations. Desai et al. (2022) propose a dataset of explanations for sarcastic captions, and Kumar et al. (2022) collect sarcastic videos from a sitcom with explanations. More recently, Hyun et al. (2023) has collected TED talks and sitcoms with explanations for why audiences laugh.

**Natural Language Explanation.** As tasks of interest become increasingly complex, predicting labels may not be enough to evaluate the models’ true understanding. Thus, some works make models explain their decisions as an alternative. For instance, FLUTE (Chakrabarty et al., 2022) augments e-SNLI (Camburu et al., 2018) to curate figurative texts with labels for natural language inference (NLI) tasks and evaluate model-generated explanations. To evaluate model explanations, they utilize a rationale quality metric suggested by Wiegreffe et al. (2021). As word-overlap scores may be insufficient for the evaluation of explanation, Wiegreffe et al. (2021) propose a rationale quality metric that calculates the difference of prediction scores for gold labels when rationales are provided or not: Acc (IR → O) − Acc (I → O), where I, R, and O denote input, rationale, and gold label, respectively. In addition, Sun et al. (2022) evaluate explanations by comparing the accuracy of joke classification with and without explanations: Acc (IE → O) − Acc (I → O) where E denotes explanation. We introduce a moment localization task to compute the rationale quality score of the video explanation.

**Modular Vision-Language Learning.** As pretrained models become larger and are trained with extensive datasets, various multimodal comprehension tasks have been tackled by composing these pretrained models. One approach is to transform visual information into discrete text words (Zeng et al., 2022; Yang et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2022b). Zeng et al. (2022) propose a modular framework that leverages LLM to construct the input text for the subsequent model based on the output of multimodal models in the previous stage. They demonstrate performance improvements in image captioning and visual question answering (VQA) tasks. Another approach connects pretrained models through continuous feature embeddings (Patro et al., 2021; Alayrac et al., 2022; Tiong et al., 2022). Li et al. (2023a) pretrain additional lightweight modules that bridge the frozen image encoder and LLMs to eliminate the modality gap between the two frozen pretrained models. Tewel et al. (2022) connect the frozen image encoder with the frozen language decoder and evolve additional pseudo tokens during inference time to perform the video captioning task. Recently, there have been efforts to integrate these two different approaches. Li et al. (2023b) introduce VideoChat, a chat-centric video understanding system consisting of two modules: VideoChat-Text and VideoChat-Embed. The former generates text descriptions from the video and the latter encodes the video as embeddings. These text descriptions and embeddings are combined with a received question to form a prompt, based on which the LLM generates a response.

In our work, we combine vision-language pretrained models with LLMs through text for two uses: (i) video filtering for collecting multimodal
