## A Experimental Details

**Video Filtering Pipeline.** In the video filtering pipeline, we utilize a zero-shot video captioning model from Tewel et al. (2022), a speech-to-text model Whisper (Radford et al., 2022), and GPT-3.5 (Ouyang et al., 2022). For the video captioning model, we optimize pseudo tokens for 25 iterations at inference time to guide the pretrained GPT-2 (Radford et al., 2019) with the CLIP ViT-L/14 image encoder (Radford et al., 2021). We use AdamW optimizer (Loshchilov and Hutter, 2019) with a learning rate of 0.008 and an L2 weight decay of 0.003. For Whisper, we use the large-v2 model. For GPT-3.5, we use text-davinci-003 and set the temperature to 0 for funny utterance detection and 0.3 for explanation generation.

**Video-to-Text Prompting.** During the prompting stage, we use BLIP-2 (Li et al., 2023a), InternVideo (Wang et al., 2022a), Whisper, ChatGPT (OpenAI, 2023), and an audio-tagging model from Schmid et al. (2022). We use the coco-pretrained BLIP-2 model with nucleus sampling. For InternVideo, we use CLIP ViT-L/14 as the image encoder. We set the temperature to 0.3 for ChatGPT, and we use the mn40_as model for audio tagging.

**Explanation Generation.** To generate explanations with baseline models, we finetune T5 (Raffel et al., 2020) and BART (Lewis et al., 2020) with a batch size of 4 for 5 epochs. We use the AdamW optimizer with a learning rate of 2e-5 and an L2 weight decay of 0.01. Additionally, we train MAF (Kumar et al., 2022), a multimodal end-to-end model with an adaptor added to BART, with a batch size of 4 for 20 epochs. We use the AdamW optimizer with an L2 weight decay of 1e-4, and the learning rate is set to 5e-8 for BART parameters and 5e-7 for the remaining parameters. We use BART Large for all models.

**Rationale Quality Experiments.** For the rationale quality experiments with moment localization, we train QD-DETR (Moon et al., 2023) with a batch size of 128 for 200 epochs. We use the AdamW optimizer with a learning rate of 1e-5 and an L2 weight decay of 1e-4. We optimize with the moment retrieval loss consisting of the L1 loss, the cross-entropy loss and the generalized IoU loss. We use the loss balancing terms of 10, 1 and 2 for each of them, respectively. We do not use the saliency loss. We use the bert-base-uncased model (Devlin et al., 2019) as the text encoder with the max query length set to 400 and CLIP ViT-L/14 as the video

|  |  | SentBERT | ROSCOE (RA) |
|---|---|---:|---:|
| T5 w/ Prompting | w/o V | 0.540 | 0.783 |
|  | w/o T | 0.463 | 0.753 |
|  | w/o A | 0.578 | 0.801 |
|  | w/ V, T, A | **0.584** | **0.804** |
| BART w/ Prompting | w/o V | 0.551 | 0.788 |
|  | w/o T | 0.497 | 0.767 |
|  | w/o A | 0.587 | 0.805 |
|  | w/ V, T, A | **0.588** | **0.805** |

Table 4: Ablation results of T5 and BART with our prompting measured by SentBERT and ROSCOE scores when each modality component is removed. V, T, and A denote visual, speech, and sound, respectively.

encoder. We sample video frames at a rate of 1 fps.

Except for the aforementioned hyperparameters, we use the default values for all models.

## B Additional Ablation Study

We conduct ablation experiments on BART and T5 with our prompting as well, and the results are as shown in Table 4. Similar to the results of GPT-3.5 with our prompting, using all modalities achieves the best performance, and there is a certain degree of performance decrease when the visual component is removed.

## C Crowdsourcing Details

We use three different user interfaces of Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) for (i) annotating the timestamps and explanations of funny moments, and the human evaluation of (ii) rating and (iii) comparison, as shown in Figures 6-8, respectively. We guarantee AMT workers receive fair wages of approximately \$18 per hour. Additionally, we allocate about \$2 as compensation for each data point and grant additional wages to workers contributing extended time and effort.

## D Case Study

Figures 9-12 show representative videos accepted or excluded by our video filtering pipeline. Figures 13-18 provide several examples to demonstrate humor explanations that our baseline models actually generate. We color-code relevant (blue) and irrelevant (red) information contained in generated explanations. LLMs with our prompting, especially GPT-3.5, correctly explain the funny moments in Figures 13-16 while text-only LLMs and MAF fail to. All the models fail to explain humorous moments in Figures 17-18.
