## Limitations

Since the copyright remains with the original owners of our dataset videos, we will only distribute URLs instead of videos.

Our method relies on the performance of existing state-of-the-art models, as we used them in a zero-shot composition. Also, our approach composes models through text, so it could also be explorable to use an adaptor-based method for prompt tuning during inference.

We measured the videos by dividing them into three modalities, but we did not consider the temporal information of sound. As timing can play a role in humor, analyzing the sound in accordance with the timeline could be helpful.

Lastly, humor is subjective, which means that our collected explanations may be subjective, too.

## Ethics Statement

We put much effort into ensuring that our dataset contains no inappropriate videos that may raise ethical issues. Based on the safety rules of Thoppilan et al. (2022), authors manually viewed each video entirely from start to end and filtered the video if there was any content that corresponded to the filtering criteria presented in the dataset postprocessing. Although we carefully reviewed all the videos, there could still be some videos that are not comfortable for someone. If such inappropriate videos are found, we will remove them in the future. Also, since we only recruit workers in AU, CA, GB, NZ, and US as mentioned in the Appendix, the cultural and geographic biases may influence humor explanations.

## Acknowledgments

We sincerely thank Jaekyeom Kim, Jaewoo Ahn, Soochan Lee, Wonkwang Lee, Yeda Song, and Jaehyeon Son for their valuable comments. We would also like to thank AMT workers for their commitment to building the **ExFunTube** dataset. This work was supported by the SNU-Global Excellence Research Center establishment project, Basic Science Research Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Ministry of Education (RS-2023-00274280), Institute of Information & communications Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grant funded by the Korea government (MSIT) (No. 2022-0-00156, Fundamental research on continual meta-learning for quality enhancement of casual videos and their 3D metaverse transformation), and Institute of Information & communications Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grant funded by the Korea government (MSIT) (No. 2021-0-01343, Artificial Intelligence Graduate School Program (Seoul National University)). Gunhee Kim is the corresponding author.

## References

Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc, Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson, Karel Lenc, Arthur Mensch, Katherine Millican, Malcolm Reynolds, et al. 2022. Flamingo: a Visual Language Model for Few-Shot Learning. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, volume 35.

Issa Annamoradnejad and Gohar Zoghi. 2020. ColBERT: Using BERT Sentence Embedding for Humor Detection. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.12765*, 1(3).

Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language Models Are Few-Shot Learners. *Advances in neural information processing systems*, 33:1877–1901.

Moniek Buijzen and Patti M Valkenburg. 2004. Developing a Typology of Humor in Audiovisual Media. *Media psychology*, 6(2):147–167.

Oana-Maria Camburu, Tim Rocktäschel, Thomas Lukasiewicz, and Phil Blunsom. 2018. e-SNLI: Natural Language Inference with Natural Language Explanations. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, volume 31.

Santiago Castro, Devamanyu Hazarika, Verónica Pérez-Rosas, Roger Zimmermann, Rada Mihalcea, and Soujanya Poria. 2019. Towards Multimodal Sarcasm Detection (An _Obviously_ Perfect Paper). In *Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*.

Tuhin Chakrabarty, Arkadiy Saakyan, Debanjan Ghosh, and Smaranda Muresan. 2022. Flute: Figurative Language Understanding through Textual Explanations. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*.

Arjun Chandrasekaran, Ashwin K Vijayakumar, Stanislaw Antol, Mohit Bansal, Dhruv Batra, C Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh. 2016. We Are Humor Beings: Understanding and Predicting Visual Humor. In *Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*.

Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian Gehrmann, Parker Schuh, Kensen Shi,
