to the humor explanation. Otherwise, the video is accepted.

**Rationale of Our Pipeline.** There has yet to be a method to gauge the extent and manner in which visual elements contribute to humor. In other benchmarks, the multimodality of datasets has been validated by analyzing the performance gap when visual information is either provided or not (Hasan et al., 2019; Patro et al., 2021; Kumar et al., 2022). Similarly, we collect videos that exhibit differences in the assigned task (*i.e.*, identifying humorous utterances by GPT-3.5) with or without visual information. In the field of NLI, previous works (Liu et al., 2022; Wiegrefe et al., 2022; Chakrabarty et al., 2022) leverage the power of LLMs such as GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) in creating figurative language examples or explanations for them. Likewise, we use GPT-3.5 to check the difference between generated explanations. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach that employs explanations for curating a dataset. Thanks to the pipeline, we can collect 21K high-quality multimodal humorous videos.

**Postprocessing.** To ensure that our dataset does not contain any disrespectful or harmful content towards individuals or animals, we conduct a thorough manual review of all 21K videos. We filter out the videos using the five criteria based on the safety objectives outlined by Thoppilan et al. (2022): (i) Discrimination: videos displaying discrimination based on race, gender, sexual orientation, age, or disability. (ii) Animal cruelty: videos depicting acts of animal cruelty, such as a cat falling. (iii) Dangerous goods, services, activities, or self-harm: videos featuring dangerous content like drugs, violence, or bullying. (iv) Obscenities or profanities: videos containing explicit language or sexual actions. (v) Shocking content: videos that include shocking content, such as gunshots or explosions. After the filtering, about 50% of the videos are removed, and we are left with 10,136 videos.

## 3.2 Data annotations

We crowdsource via Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) to annotate start and end timestamps of funny moments and provide text explanations for each moment. To participate in our dataset annotation, workers must meet the following criteria: a HIT approval rate of 99% or higher, a total of more than 10,000 approved HITs, and be located in one of the countries of AU, CA, GB, NZ, or US. We conduct a qualification test for these workers, selecting those who can effectively explain humor. Out of 219 workers, only 60 pass the qualification test, indicating our thorough selection.

For each video, we instruct one worker first to identify up to three funny moments within a video (up to 30 seconds long) and then annotate why each moment is funny. To make workers explain both humor elements and justifications, we provide a recommended format: “[*What is funny*]. *It is funny because* [*Why funny*]”. We only accept responses including both descriptions (*What*) and justifications (*Why*) and reject those that lack either. Given the difficulty of the task, we offer detailed feedback to the workers, helping them improve their performance with a high annotation standard.

As a result, we obtain 11,166 explanations, each paired with start and end timestamps of the moment. They consist of 44.3 words on average. Out of 10,136 videos, 9,222 contain one funny moment, 798 contain two, and 116 contain three. Most videos contain a single funny moment since videos are typically shorter than 30 seconds. However, given the varied content in each video, there can be any number of funny moments.

# 4 Approach

We explore an approach to explain video humor. Our idea is first to convert the video content into fine-grained text and then take advantage of recent powerful LLMs in a zero-shot manner. We design to extract as much information from videos into text as possible. Figure 3 shows a zero-shot video-to-text prompting that converts the video content into a text input to LLMs.

## 4.1 Fine-grained Text Prompts

Videos contain visual and audio modalities. The audio is further split into speech and sound. For each component, we initially generate text descriptions using state-of-the-art zero-shot models. Then, we arrange text descriptions in chronological order and use them as a prompt.

**Visual.** In order to populate high-quality text descriptions about the visual, we first (i) segment the video, (ii) generate multiple frame captions, and (iii) retrieve the best-matching caption with the video-to-text model.

First, we employ PySceneDetect<sup>2</sup> to divide a video into a set of $N$ segments based on visual

<sup>2</sup>https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect
