| Dataset | Modality | Type | #Data Points | Data Config | Exp | Task |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| ExPUN | T | Pun | 2K | {Pun, Keywords, Up to 5 scores & explanations} | ✓ | Pun *Exp* |
| AVH / FOR | I | Abstract Scene | 3K / 15K | {A funny image, An unfunny image, 10 funniness ratings} / {A counterpart (object replaced) image} | - | Image Humor Scoring & Altering |
| NYCC | I,T | Cartoon | 0.7K | {Cartoon, Three finalist captions, 3 annotations of locations, descriptions, uncanny descriptions, relevant entities, and explanations} | ✓ | Cartoon Caption *Exp* |
| MORE | I,T | Posts | 3K | {Image, Caption, 1 explanation} | ✓ | Image Sarcasm *Exp* |
| MUStARD | V,A,T | Sitcom | 6K | {Video, Binary (funny/unfunny) label} | - | Video Sarcasm *BC* |
| WITS | V,A,T | Sitcom | 2.2K | {Video, One Explanation} | ✓ | Dialogue Sarcasm *Exp* |
| UR-FUNNY | V,A,T | Speech | 8K | {Video, Binary (funny/unfunny) label} | - | Video Humor *BC* |
| MHD | V,T | Sitcom | 11K | {Video, Binary (funny/unfunny) label} | - | Video Humor *BC* |
| ExFunTube | V,A,T | Short-form Youtube videos | 10K | {Video, Up to 3 timestamps & explanations} | ✓ | Video Humor *Exp* |

Table 1: Comparison of our ExFunTube with previous humor datasets: ExPUN (Sun et al., 2022), AVH&FOR (Chandrasekaran et al., 2016), NYCC (Hessel et al., 2022), MORE (Desai et al., 2022), MUStARD (Castro et al., 2019), WITS (Kumar et al., 2022), UR-FUNNY (Hasan et al., 2019), and MHD (Patro et al., 2021) . In the Modality column, I, V, A, and T denote image, video, audio, and text, respectively. The #Data Points column shows only the number of positive (humorous) data points. The Data Config column specifies the composition of each data point. The Exp column indicates the presence of annotated explanations. In the Task column, *Exp* and *BC* are abbreviations of explanation generation and binary classification task each.

pressions. Castro et al. (2019) build the MUStARD dataset from four sitcoms, mainly from "Friends" and "Big Bang Theory," and Patro et al. (2021) collect the MHD dataset from the sitcom "Big Bang Theory." However, in sitcoms, the fixed actors follow a predetermined script on a constructed set, and the punchline plays a crucial role, so the visual elements may have less contribution to humor. Moreover, the aforementioned video datasets only have binary labels indicating whether the content is humorous or not. As binary classification may not evaluate whether a model truly understands the humor in a video, Kumar et al. (2022) collect WITS with annotated text explanations. However, this dataset is limited to sarcasm, a specific form of humor, and focuses on sarcasm explanation in dialogue. It highlights a need for a humor explanation dataset that considers visual elements more and covers general humor.

To this end, we curate **ExFunTube**, a dataset of funny, short-form videos with explanations. These videos are collected from user-generated YouTube videos, which are shared on the "r/youtubehaiku" subreddit. In this subreddit, users upload short-form funny videos, typically up to 30 seconds long. We develop a video filtering pipeline with GPT-3.5 (Ouyang et al., 2022), designed to exclude the videos with minimal visual impact on humor. Then, we annotate the collected videos with timestamps and text explanations of funny moments, as exemplified in Figure 1.

Recent LLMs show great performance for explaining humor present in text to some extent (Chowdhery et al., 2022). Inspired by the recent research on multimodal-informed prompting (Zeng et al., 2022), we convert video content into text, leveraging various zero-shot models on diverse modalities of the video. We provide LLMs with the text prompt as a linguistic summary of video content. Specifically, we consider two modalities of the video content: visual and audio. From the visual modality, we obtain dense video descriptions. From the audio modality, we acquire speech transcripts and sound labels. Finally, we chronologically integrate them into a text prompt that can maximize LLMs’ ability for humor explanation.

Since evaluating a model’s ability to explain humor is challenging, we report our results in three different ways: model-based automatic scores, rationale quality metrics with the moment localization task, and human evaluation. First, we report model-based metrics instead of those using word overlap. Second, we conduct a rationale quality experiment, which assesses the quality of explanations from the accuracy of predicting gold labels (Wiegreffe et al., 2021). Finally, we carry out human evaluations with sampled test examples. Through these three different results, our prompting approach considerably improves the humor explanation performance of three important LLMs, including one zero-shot GPT-3.5 and two finetuned T5 (Raffel et al., 2020) and BART (Lewis et al., 2020).

To summarize, our key contributions are:

1. We curate **ExFunTube**, a dataset consisting
