to replicate humans, but to derive design principles that can be reinterpreted in machine contexts. Building on this, we investigated the strategies for human humor performance through expert interviews and video coding to design the humor-performing strategy for our system. Furthermore, we conducted a focused literature review on humor related theories to integrate additional insights into the design of our prompt.

## 3.1 Expert Interview

*3.1.1 Participants and Recruitment.* We recruited five people who had experience in or were familiar with comedy performance, including two full-time stand-up comedians and one part-time stand-up comedian. The demographics are shown in Table 1. They provided consent to participate in the interview and allowed their data to be collected anonymously by signing a consent form. The study passed the university’s ethics review, and the data collected were analyzed while maintaining the anonymity of the subjects’ identities.

*3.1.2 Interview Protocol.* A semi-structured online interview (see Appendix A) within 30 minutes was conducted with each participant individually through the Microsoft Teams Meet platform (E2) and Tencent Meeting platform (E1, E3, E4, E5). Before the interview, all participants were informed that the conversations would be audio-recorded and transcribed. For non-English-speaking participants (E3, E4), their transcripts were translated through the Google Translate platform and double-checked by two native speaking researchers. During the interview, participants were encouraged to recall their past experience with comedy performances to seek insights for designing the strategies for humor.

*3.1.3 Thematic Analysis.* Following the translation and transcription verification with participants, we applied a thematic analysis to the interview transcript, aiming to investigate the common strategies they used for their past unique humor performance. We summarized the 3 main as follows:

**Aspect 1: Constructing Content of Comedian Identity**

- **Specific and Unique Identities.** Regarding comedian identity, three participants emphasized that comedians need to establish a recognizable identity to quickly convey familiarity through the use of stereotypes and cultural references. For example, E4 stated, *"And then because I am a male kindergarten teacher, so in this industry, nobody performs comedy. So they said You’d better just write this, so about this area, for sure nobody write, so it will be new."*
- **Using Jokes for Self-Introduction to Signal Identity.** Beyond simply having a distinctive persona, comedians also express and reinforce their identity through performance practices. For example, one participant (P4) noted that comedians often use self-introduction as an opportunity to establish identity through humor, rather than providing a straightforward statement, which is a good way to both "warm up the crowd" and indicate what kind of persona the comedian is taking on. As E4 explained, *"So for your opening, usually there’s a host introducing the performer. If there is no one, then you have to introduce yourself, use some jokes about yourself to warm the crowd."*
- **Identity Stereotypes Breaking.** Two participants (E4, E5) noted that comedians often play with stereotypes—first invoking them, then subverting them—to attract audiences through a mix of familiarity and surprise. As E4 explained, *"When people see me, it breaks their stereotype of kindergarten teachers, who are usually assumed to be women. I start by pointing out that kindergartens actually need more male teachers, and then deliver the punchline: during my interview, my boss said, ‘But… you don’t seem very masculine.’"*
- **Self-Deprecation of Comedians.** Identity-based jokes can sometimes be risky because they may rely on stereotypes or cultural references that unintentionally offend parts of the audience. To ensure the audience will not feel offended, two participants (E4, E5) highlighted that self-deprecating humor helps performers establish a humble persona, which in turn enhances audience enjoyment and positions them favorably. In this way, the audience can feel a sense of superiority in a positive way, increasing engagement. For example, P4 noted, *"If your attitude is a bit humble, it can easily bring some happiness and joy to the audience. It also makes people feel good because, as an audience, they like to feel like they’re in a slightly higher or superior position."*
- **"Using ’Punching Up’ Over ’Punching Down’".** Another participant (E2) also highlighted the ethical idea behind "punching up", which means focusing criticism on those who hold more power. Not the other way around with "punching down," which can cause little harm to less privileged groups. In this way, a comedian can maintain fairness and audience approval while reducing the likelihood of offense. As E2 explained, *"However, I don’t do jokes like that anymore because that is a form of bullying. I’m making fun of someone who has poor English now. English is not their first language. I have English as my first language, so I’m making fun of someone whose English is their second language. So it’s kind of bullying. So it’s what we call punching down, where I’m making fun of someone inferior, and it’s not fair, right?"*

**Aspect 2: Performance Practices for Audience Engagement**

- **Direct and simple expressions.** For engaging audiences effectively, one participant (E3) highlighted the importance of direct and simple expressions to ensure clarity and accessibility, and also help maintain a fast-paced rhythm. P3 explained, *"So basically, all the annoying or bad stuff people say about AI can be used as self-deprecating jokes, making it funny. Because some AIs act like they’re super smart and awesome, but we can take the opposite way — you know, humble AI style."*
- **After-punchline disfluencies.** In addition, two participants (E4, E5) mentioned that comedians do not always keep a fast pace; instead, they use long pauses after speaking, which allow enough space for audience laughter. As P5 stated, *"Like, after saying something funny, the audience laughs, then you definitely pause longer to let the laugh or clapping fill the space. Instead of jumping to the next joke right when they’re just starting to laugh."* Furthermore, P4 contended that the length and frequency of pauses should depend on comedians, which meant comedians should guide
