[100] Yuhan Zeng, Yingxuan Shi, Xuehan Huang, Fiona Nah, and RAY LC. 2025. "Ronaldo’s a poser!": How the Use of Generative AI Shapes Debates in Online Forums. In *Proceedings of the 2025 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems*. 1–22.

[101] Fan Zhang, Molin Li, Xiaoyu Chang, Kexue Fu, Richard William Allen, and RAY LC. 2025. "Becoming My Own Audience": How Dancers React to Avatars Unlike Themselves in Motion Capture-Supported Live Improvisational Performance. In *Proceedings of the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI ’25)*. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 20. doi:10.1145/3706598.3713390

[102] Qinshi Zhang, Ruoyu Wen, Latisha Besariani Hendra, Zijian Ding, and RAY LC. 2025. Can AI Prompt Humans? Multimodal Agents Prompt Players’ Game Actions and Show Consequences to Raise Sustainability Awareness. In *Proceedings of the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI ’25)*. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 29. doi:10.1145/3706598.3713661

[103] Suifang Zhou, Kexue Fu, Huamin Yi, and RAY LC. 2025. RetroChat: Designing for the Preservation of Past Chinese Online Social Experiences. In *Creativity and Cognition (C&C ’25)*. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 19. doi:10.1145/3698061.3726920

[104] Suifang Zhou, Latisha Besariani Hendra, Qinshi Zhang, Jussi Holopainen, and RAY LC. 2024. Eternagram: Probing Player Attitudes Towards Climate Change Using a ChatGPT-driven Text-based Adventure. In *Proceedings of the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI ’24)*. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–23. doi:10.1145/3613904.3642850
