Ryosuke Iwakura, Tomohiro Yoshikawa, and Furuhashi Furuhashi. 2018. A Basic Study on Generating Back-Channel Humor Phrases for Chat Dialogue Systems. In *2018 Joint 10th International Conference on Soft Computing and Intelligent Systems (SCIS) and 19th International Symposium on Advanced Intelligent Systems (ISIS)*, pages 1263–1266. Publicity Committee of SCIS-ISIS.

Arvo Krikmann. 2006. Contemporary Linguistic Theories of Humour. *Folklore: Electronic Journal of Folklore*, 33:27–58.

Igor Labutov and Hod Lipson. 2012. Humor as Circuits in Semantic Networks. In *Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 150–155, Jeju Island, Korea. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

Kevin Lenzo. 2007. The CMU pronouncing dictionary. *Carnegie Melon University*.

Mao Li, Jiancheng Lv, Jian Wang, and Yongsheng Sang. 2019. An abstract painting generation method based on deep generative model. *Neural Processing Letters*, 2019:1–12.

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. Computational Laughing: Automatic Recognition of Humorous One-liners. In *Proceedings of the 27th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society (CogSci ’05)*, pages 1513–1518, Stresa, Italy. Cognitive Science Society.

Marvin Minsky. 1984. Jokes and the Logic of the Cognitive Unconscious. In Lucia Vaina and Jaakko Hintikka, editors, *Cognitive Constraints on Communication: Representations and Processes*, Synthese Language Library, pages 175–200. Springer Netherlands, Dordrecht.

Alex Morales and ChengXiang Zhai. 2017. Identifying Humor in Reviews using Background Text Sources. In pages 492–501, Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

Anton Nijholt, editor. 2012. *Computational Humor 2012. Proceedings 3rd International Workshop on Computational Humor*. Universiteit Twente, Enschede.

Hugo Gonçalo Oliveira, Diogo Costa, and Alexandre Pinto. 2016. One does not simply produce funny memes! – Explorations on the Automatic Generation of Internet humor. In *Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Computational Creativity (ICCC ’16)*, pages 238–245, Paris, France. Association for Computational Creativity.

John Allen Paulos. 1982. *Mathematics and Humor: A Study Of The Logic Of Humor*. University of Chicago Press, Chicago.

Saša Petrović and David Matthews. 2013. Unsupervised joke generation from big data. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 228–232, Sofia, Bulgaria. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

Princeton University. 2010. About WordNet. https://wordnet.princeton.edu/

Victor Raskin. 1984. *Semantic Mechanisms of Humor*. Springer Netherlands, Dordrecht.

Victor Raskin. 2012. A Little Metatheory: Thought on What aTheory of Computational Humor Should Look Like. In *Artificial Intelligence of Humor, Papers from the 2012 AAAI Fall Symposium*, Arlington, Virginia, USA. Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI).

Victor Raskin and Salvatore Attardo. 1991. Script theory revis(it)ed: joke similarity and joke representation model. *Humor - International Journal of Humor Research*, 4(3–4):293–348.

Victor Raskin and Salvatore Attardo. 1994. Non-literalness and non-bona-fide in language: An approach to formal and computational treatments of humor. *Pragmatics & Cognition*, 2(1):31–69.

Graeme Ritchie. 1999. Developing the Incongruity-Resolution Theory. In *Proceedings of the AISB Symposium on Creative Language: Stories and Humour*, pages 78–85, Edinburgh, Scotland. Society for the Study of Artificial Intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour.
