through lexical replacement, in acronyms (Stock and Strapparava, 2005), proverbs (Sjöbergh and Araki, 2008) or in SMS (Valitutti et al., 2016), and one system creates witty analogies (Petrović and Matthews, 2013).

In the following, we will give an overview of existing humor generation systems. Since neural networks have recently achieved state-of-the-art results on many tasks in natural language processing, we will start with the group of systems that apply them for the creation of jokes. This group, however, contains only two systems, whereas the vast majority (ten systems) belongs to the group of template-based approaches.

### 2.1 Neural systems

The most recent line of work on computational joke generation trains neural networks for language generation in a way that the output is a short humorous text. As was already mentioned, work in this branch started with Yang and Sheng’s (2017) current affair jokes generator that is trained on a joke corpus and allows the user to specify the topics of the joke. They use an LSTM RNN as their network architecture and GloVe as vector representation for the training data input. As training data, the authors use a dataset of 7,699 jokes written by Conan O’Brien and news data in order to improve the model for the current affairs related language. The topic words to be selected by the user were extracted from the jokes with a POS-tagger, assuming that nouns typically represent topics. Additionally, the user can specify the words the joke starts with from a list (e.g. ‘*I don’t know why but...*’). The authors attempt to implement a form of incongruity by not outputting the word with the highest probability, but instead picking words from the vocabulary with the probability they were assigned in the output layer. For example, for the topic words ‘Kardashian’ and ‘President’, the network generated the joke ‘*Yesterday to a new attractiveness that allows Bill Kardashian’s wife to agree with the U . S . Presidents . In fairness , she said , “My spa” .*’ It is evident from this example that the system is not capable of producing a humorous text.

Instead of training their model on a joke corpus, Yu et al. (2018) aim at creating humor through incongruity by training a neural network with a seq2seq model on the Wikipedia text corpus and using one polysemic word and two of its meanings as input for text generation. From that, the language model generates two sentences, each conveying one sense of the word. In the first of the two presented pun models (the authors call it joint model), an encoder-decoder network is trained to generate one sentence containing both senses. The second model (highlight model) is an improved version that adds more words associated with the initial senses to the decoded sentence. That is to make sure both conveyed senses are transferred to the audience explicitly enough. For example, one of the triples consisting of a polysemic word and two of its meanings as input for the joke models could be ‘*square; 1) a plane rectangle with four equal sides and four right angles, a four-sided regular polygon; 2) someone who doesn’t understand what is going on.*’ For this input, the highlight model outputs ‘*Little is known when he goes back to the square of the football club*’ and the joint model generates ‘*There is a square of the family.*’ Likewise Yang and Sheng’s (2017) system, neither of the models’ output is identifiable as joke.

In contrast to template-based humor systems that will be reviewed in the next section, neural systems pose no semantic or syntactic restrictions, which results in a fairly creative output. Despite the high level of creativity, both neural systems ultimately fail to generate actual humor.

### 2.2 Template-based systems

In linguistics, a template is understood to be a text with slots that can be filled with different variables. In order to compose a joke, a template needs to be associated with a schema, which is the structure stipulating the relationships between the variables of a template (Binsted and Ritchie, 1994). These relationships are typically chosen in a way to provoke incongruity and its resolution. In other words, the schema is the joking mechanism. The variable relations can be a lexical relationship like synonymy, meronymy or hyponymy, but also a phonetical relation, such as (quasi-)homonymy. All template-based systems need a source that provides information about relationships between words in order to fulfill the requirements of the schema. We propose a classification of template-based systems that focuses on the source of these information. It should be noted that template-based systems are typically less creative than neural systems, as they are in any case restricted to the constraints of the template which are predefined by the creator of the template.
