While humor generation can be researched from both the textual and the visual perspective (Oliveira et al., 2016), this survey article is dedicated to providing an overview of only text-based systems and approaches for the computational generation of humor.  
Although only a minority of the existing systems refer to humor theory explicitly, we assume that it is necessary to also consider some of the most current linguistic humor theories when discussing different computational approaches to humor generation. Among the most prominent humor theories are the following:

- Surprise disambiguation model (Ritchie, 1999; Minsky, 1984; Paulos, 1982; Shultz, 1974)
- Suls‘ two-stage model (Suls, 1972)
- Script-based semantic theory of humor (SSTH) (Raskin, 1984) and its extension, the General theory of verbal humor (Raskin and Attardo, 1991)

These theories agree that humor is evoked by incongruity within a text. Incongruity theories assume that a humorous text conveys two different, incompatible interpretations (also called scripts[^2] or frames) that share a common part that allows us to shift from one script to another. One interpretation is usually more obvious than the other, so that the recipient begins to process only this script, until parts of the text contradict with the initial interpretation, revealing the before hidden, second interpretation. This sudden revision of understanding causes the emotions of surprise and satisfaction that is perceived as humor (Krikmann, 2006). The various theories differ in how the incongruity is created or resolved (Ritchie, 1999).

Although research on computational humor generation has been going on since the early 1990s, the field is still very heterogenous. Research is conducted by at least two different communities: humor theory/linguistics (e.g. Hempelmann, 2008; Raskin, 2012; Taylor, 2017) and natural language processing/computational linguistics (e.g. Binsted and Ritchie, 1994; Hong and Ong, 2009; Yang and Sheng, 2017). There have been attempts by the humor theory community to streamline the research activity in a series of workshops (Nijholt, 2012), however, the vast majority of existing humor systems originates from the NLP community and does not seem to pick up those more theory-driven impulses. Interestingly enough, most of the older NLP approaches also do not take into account related and previous work and for the most part seem to exist in isolation from each other (Winters et al., 2019). After all, a more recent approach aims to standardize terminology and generalize the computational template-based stream of research (Winters et al., 2019). This framework is, however, not able to capture the entirety of the existing systems and the only existing survey paper that aims at capturing activity in the field dates back to 2001 (Ritchie, 2001). With the present survey paper, we try to fill that gap by providing a comprehensive overview of the existing approaches. To be able to compare and discuss these approaches, we propose *humorousness* and *complexity* as the two main criteria for the evaluation of humor generation systems. By analyzing the strengths and weaknesses of the respective systems with regard to those criteria, we conclude directions for future research in the field.

## 2 Humor Generation Systems

Humor generation can be viewed as a special case of automatic text generation. Accordingly, the existing systems can be categorized as belonging to one of two major approaches to text generation: Templates and neural networks. Until Yang and Sheng’s publication on an LSTM RNN for joke production in 2017, all of the previous published systems were template-based. While the early template-based systems had to be equipped with handcrafted lexicons, more recent systems have a variety of external lexical resources as source of material for generation.

It is also worth mentioning that the nature of the humorous texts produced by different systems is rather diverse. While a number of systems was focused on the generation of question-answer jokes (Raskin and Attardo, 1994; Binsted and Ritchie, 1994; Ritchie et al., 2007; Sjöbergh and Araki, 2008; Hong and Ong, 2009; Labutov and Lipson, 2012), others aimed at creating narrative jokes (Sjöbergh and Araki, 2009; Yang and Sheng, 2017; Yu et al., 2018). Furthermore, three systems generate humor

[^2]: A script, also known as frame, is ‘an organized chunk of information about something’ and ‘contains information which is typical, such as well-established routines and common ways to do things and to go about activities’ (Attardo, 1994). In a broader sense, every content word can be a script, as for example ‘teacher’ or ‘workplace’. Scripts can also be more complex like ‘packing for holidays’.
