*Natsu to ieba, natsukashii Nose de, kyuuyuu to waiwai! (Speaking of summer, it will be fun to meet some old friends in my beloved Nose [a town near Osaka]!)*

Similar to Stock and Strapparava’s (2005) HAHAcronym, Valitutti et al. (2016) generate humorous texts by word substitution. They substitute a single word in a given short text message (SMS) that serves as a template. Their 2016 study is an enhanced version of a 2013 paper by the same authors (Valitutti et al., 2013). They assume different kinds of lexical constraints that determine the funniness of a substitution: (1) Taboo: The substitution is a taboo word (dirty word e.g.) or connoted with a taboo. (2) Coherence: The substitute forms a coherent compound with its neighbors. (3) Position: The substitution takes place among the last words of the text. (4) Form: The substitute is phonetically or orthographically similar to the original word. They use WordNet, the CMU pronunciation dictionary, the Google n-gram corpus after 1990, two online dictionaries of slang words and an example list of funny autocorrection mistakes from the internet, to find suitable candidates and check them for compliance with the constraints. As input for the manipulation they use an SMS Corpus. An example of a joke that leverages the constraints form and position is ‘*Tmr u going to school? I meet u in pool?*’ (school/pool replacement).

## 3 Evaluation of Humor Generation Systems

In order to compare the existing systems to each other, some basic measures for the quality of humor generation systems are needed. Although a multitude of systems has been developed so far, a standardized methodology of assessing the quality of such systems is still missing. Most previous systems chose the humorousness of the output as an evaluation criterion. The majority of approaches was evaluated by means of user studies where actual humans rated the generated jokes on a Likert scale that typically ranges from 0 (not a joke) to 5 (really funny). The first authors to introduce this method were Binsted and Ritchie (1994) and many followed their example, such as Sjöberg and Araki (2008) or Hong and Ong (2009). Yang and Sheng (2017) as well as Valitutti et al. (2016) employ a four-step Likert scale. However, in most of the papers it remains unclear how the samples for evaluation were selected. Petrovic and Matthews (2013) for example disclose that they hand-picked the best jokes for the human assessment. Obviously, it matters a lot whether the average humor of a system is calculated on the basis of random jokes or on the basis of jokes that were pre-selected by the authors.

The main challenge in the design of humor evaluation measures is that humor is highly subjective and what makes one person laugh might not have the same effect on another person. Winters et al. (2018) show that the funniness judgements of jokes differ significantly among the test persons. Circumventing this issue, Valitutti (2011) proposes the HF (humorous frequency) as measure for the evaluation of computational humor generators. He defines HF as the fraction of funny items in a randomly generated set of jokes. Any item is either funny or not funny, i.e. in this context humorousness has a Boolean value rather than a score. To calculate the HF of a system, Boolean humorousness ratings have to be assigned to every item of a randomly selected set of jokes generated by the system. However, how a single joke is assessed remains highly subjective.

Binsted and Ritchie (1997) suggest to classify a computer-generated joke as successful when people cannot tell it apart from a human-generated joke, funniness left aside. Yu et al. (2018) conduct such an evaluation. The authors design what they call a Soft Turing Test to let test persons rate the humanness of the jokes generated by their system on a three-score Likert-scale (2–definitely human/0–definitely machine).

What all these approaches have in common, however, is that they do not consider the humor capability of the systems as a whole and rather evaluate individual jokes, or, as in the case of the HF, derive an overall evaluation of the system from the scores of the individual jokes. Consequently, the diversity of the produced material is completely disregarded in these evaluations. This overlooks the fact that a system that produces a row of almost similar jokes would not be very enjoyable for a human. Taking this factor into account, the humor capability of a system with a low complexity, i.e. a system that produces similar jokes with almost the same wording and the same production principle, should be rated lower than a system that produces a variety of jokes and joke mechanisms.

To our knowledge, none of the evaluation procedures yet has attempted to apply objective criteria to the decision of whether a given piece of text is humorous or not. However, from the insights of humor theory and research, criteria for what constitutes a joke can be concluded. Consequently, a useful
