Petrovic and Matthews’ (2013) approach strikes a similar chord by encoding the semantic relationships between the variables in a template as functions and finding the words that would minimize the result. This time, however, the candidate variables are calculated based on frequencies and co-occurrences within the Google n-gram corpus, which marks a leap towards the independence of such systems from ontologies and knowledge graphs. The joke template here is *‘I like my X like I like my Y, Z.’*. The authors formulate assumptions about the variables that must be met to make the completed template funny. On the contrary to Labutov and Lipson (2012a), these assumptions, however, do not seem to originate explicitly from the theory of humor, but from a self-conceived heuristic of the authors. Besides the precondition that X and Y are nouns and Z is an adjective, the model is based on the following hypotheses: (1) The adjective should be relevant to both nouns. The model calculates the co-occurrence probability from the Google 2-gram corpus (ignoring 2-grams with less than 1,000 occurrences). (2) The less common the attribute Z, the funnier the joke. This is encoded as the reciprocal frequency of Z in the corpus. (3) The more ambiguous the attribute, the funnier the joke. The authors represent this as the reciprocal of the number of senses of Z, retrieved from WordNet. (4) The more dissimilar the nouns are, the funnier the joke. To measure the similarity, the model calculates the cosine of the angle between the two nouns, represented as vectors of all attributes used to describe them in the corpus. Dissimilarity is represented as the reciprocal similarity of X and Y. Overall, Petrovic and Matthews assume that a joke is funnier, the higher the product of all factors is, i.e. the funniness probability, given a triple (X, Y, Z), normalized over all triples. For joke calculation, the authors fix one of the nouns because of limitations in computing capacity. An example of a generated jokes is *‘I like my relationship like I like my source, open.’*.

**Hybrid systems**  
A number of systems combine ontological and quantitative approaches. Sjöbergh and Araki (2008) present a system performing Japanese stand-up comedy implementing three different joking techniques. The system starts with a proverb joke, continues with a riddle joke and ends with a joke retrieved from a human generated joke database. The succeeding joke is found on the base of the words used in the previous joke and connected by the phrase *‘Speaking of <keyword>, <next joke>’*. The system generates proverb jokes by selecting a proverb from a list of common Japanese proverbs and changing two words to similar sounding dirty words. Dirty words are taken from a collection of dirty words and information about similar pronunciation from a list of the phonetic distances between Japanese graphemes. The proverb *‘jack of all trades, master of none’* would for instance be modified to *‘jacking off all trades, masturbate none’*. For the riddle jokes, the system checks the nouns of the previous joke for similarity with a word of the dirty words list. The jokes follow the template *‘A <noun> is a <noun>, but what kind of <noun> is <hint>? – <dirty word>’*. The hint is a word that describes the noun as well as the dirty word and is generated by searching *‘a <dirty word> is <hint>’* in an internet search engine. The hint found is then reviewed for its co-occurrence with noun and dirty word, again using frequencies retrieved from a search engine. An example of such a joke is *‘“Speaking” is “speaking”, but what is a naughty kind of speaking? – Spanking the monkey.’*.

Similar to their approach, Dybala et al. (2008) develop a pun generator that creates Japanese puns as humorous responses to a user’s input as part of a conversational system. In a first step, the algorithm called PUNDA generates a candidate word for a pun. The user’s input is morphologically analyzed and if any word is parsed as a noun, this word becomes the base of the pun. Pun candidates are generated from the base word using one of four possible generation patterns: homophony, initial syllable addition, internal syllable addition and final syllable addition. For example, the following candidates can be generated from the base word *katana* by 1. homophony: *katana*, 2. initial syllable addition: *akatana, ikatana, ukatana, ...* 3. final syllable addition: *katanaa, katanai, katanau, ...* and 4. internal syllable addition: *kaatana, kaitana, kautana, ...* . If any of the candidates is recognized as an actual word by a morphological analyzer, the number of hits in a Japanese search engine is determined. The word with the highest hit rate is the final candidate. In a second step, a list of all sentences that contain this word is retrieved from a sentence database. The shortest sentence with exclamation mark, or if no such sentence is found, with period is selected as the final sentence. This sentence is connected to the user’s input with the pattern *‘Speaking of <base word>’*. An example conversation could be the following: User: *‘Natsu wa atsui desu kedo, Toukyou hodo ja nai desu’*. *(The summer is hot, but not as hot as in Tokyo.)* with the base word: *natsu (summer)* and the pun candidate *natsukashii (emotionally attached; loved)*. – System:
