measure would be not if a text is humorous or how funny a joke is, but rather whether a text is identifiable as joke or not, taking into account objective criteria.

## 4 Comparison of Humor Generation Systems based on their Humorousness and Complexity

The considerations in the last section give rise to two main criteria for the evaluation of humor systems: humorousness and complexity. In the following, we provide a discussion of the benefits and limitations of different systems based on these criteria. We define *humorousness* as the ability of a humor system to output text that is identifiable as a joke or a text with a humorous intent. The above introduced incongruity theories can contribute objective criteria towards this end. In this sense, a text is humorous if it conveys two different concepts, whose incompatibility is resolved in an unexpected way. We define *complexity* as the ability of a humor system to generate a variety of humorous texts, concerning syntactical and lexical features, as well as the joking mechanism. The joking mechanism describes the way in which the incongruity and its resolution is evoked.

Based on these two criteria, Table 1 provides a rating of the aforementioned systems. Due to the lack of computable metrics, we do not assign scores to the single systems. Instead, we rank the systems against each other in terms of the introduced criteria on a scale from 1 to 3 where 1 is the highest rank.

| Type of joke/system name | Authors | Year | Class | H | C |
|---|---|---:|---|---:|---:|
| *Current affair joke generation* | Yang and Sheng | 2017 | Neural | 3 | 1 |
| *Homographic pun generation* | Yu, et al. | 2018 | Neural | 3 | 1 |
| *Lightbulb jokes/LIBJOG* | Raskin and Attardo | 1994 | Template-based | 1 | 3 |
| *Punning riddle generators/JAPE and STANDUP* | Binsted and Ritchie | 1994/2007 | Template-based | 1 | 2 |
| *HAHAcroynm* | Stock and Strapparava | 2005 | Template-based | 2 | 2 |
| *Japanese Standup* | Sjöbergh and Araki | 2008 | Hybrid | 2 | 2 |
| *PUNDA* | Dybala et al. | 2008 | Hybrid | 2 | 2 |
| *Question-Answer jokes patterns* | Hong and Ong | 2009 | Template-based | 1 | 2 |
| *Ambiguous compound joke generator* | Sjöbergh and Araki | 2009 | Template-based | 2 | 2 |
| *Humor as circuits in ConceptNet* | Labutov and Lipson | 2012 | Template-based | 1 | 2 |
| *Humorous analogy generation* | Petrovic and Matthews | 2013 | Template-based | 1 | 3 |
| *Humorous SMS generation* | Valitutti et al. | 2016 | Hybrid | 2 | 2 |

Table 1: Ranking of humor systems with regards to humorousness (H) and complexity (C)

For the assessment of humorousness, we gave rank 3 to systems that do not fulfill the criteria for jokes at all and rank 1 to systems whose output is obviously identifiable as joke. Rank 2 was given to systems that produce text that fulfills at least some joke criteria (e.g.: Valitutti’s Humorous SMS generator introduces ambiguity to the texts, but it lacks unexpectedness). However, the evaluation of the jokes could only consider the jokes published by the authors, usually 3-5 examples. As mentioned before, it can be assumed that the authors manually filtered out the best jokes for the papers. Petrović and Matthews (2013) among others, admit this and Hong and Ong (2009) explicitly mention that much of the output is not funny.
