Within the template-based strand of research we primarily distinguish between systems that use ontologies for variable selection and systems that apply quantitative measures for that end. While the first group relies on the existence of ontologies or lexicons that store relationship information that is required to fill the template explicitly, the second group calculates predefined metrics on a corpus to find the best fit for a variable arithmetically. As a third group, we have identified hybrid systems that share properties of both aforementioned groups. In the following, we present the different groups with their corresponding systems.

**Ontologies for variable selection**

Early generators make use of handcrafted ontologies that are tailored to the specific system. This includes the Light Bulb Joke Generator (LIBJOG, Raskin and Attardo, 1994) that produces jokes of the pattern *How many <group name> does it take to screw in a light bulb? <NumberX>. One to <activity1> and <numberY> to <activity2>.* LIBJOG uses a lexicon of social groups and their stereotypical activities to produce jokes such as *‘How many Californians does it take to change a light bulb? Twelve. One to screw it in and eleven to share in the experience.’* Over several phases from LIBJOG-1 to LIBJOG-4, the system became incrementally more complex, allowing for more activity fields and less restricted number relations.

Binsted and Ritchie (1994) follow a similar approach by basing their punning riddle generator on a manually edited lexicon that stores lexical relationship information, such as synonymy, hyponymy and associated verbs and the phonetical feature homophony. Their system called JAPE-1 uses question-answer templates, as for example *What is <adjective> and <verb>?- <noun phrase>.* With *<noun phrase>* as user input, JAPE fills the two remaining slots based on the words’ homophony, exploiting phonological ambiguity to induce humorousness. An example of such a joke is: *‘What’s green and bounces? A spring cabbage!’*. Figure 1 illustrates the mechanism of that joke. In total, JAPE has 15 joke templates with schemes.

[Figure: Illustrated diagram of JAPE joke mechanism with labels “adjective”, “What’s”, “green”, “and”, “bounces”, “?”, “act_verb”, “A”, “spring”, “cabbage”, “!”.]

Figure 1: Illustrated example of the joke mechanism in JAPE. From: Binsted and Ritchie, 1994

Another line of systems uses freely-available ontologies and databases. Resources used by the existing systems are WordNet (Princeton University, 2010) for lexical relationships, ConceptNet (Speer et al., 2017) for semantic relationships and UniSyn (Fitt, 2002) or CMU pronouncing dictionary (Lenzo, 2007) for phonetical relationships. Furthermore, systems make use of thematic word lists for slang words or profanity. With STANDUP, Ritchie et al. (2007) present an extension of JAPE that has a user interface makes use of WordNet and UniSyn instead of the handcrafted lexicon.

HAHAcronym (Stock and Strapparava, 2005) is a system that writes out common acronyms in a humorous manner. For example, the acronym *FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation)* becomes *Fantastic Bureau of Intimidation*. HAHAcronym makes use of WordNet, augmented with domain labels for the entries and the CMU pronunciation dictionary to take into account word rhymes and rhythms. The systems parses a given acronym to detect the syntactical form and the highest-ranking noun phrase, which remains unchanged. The other words get substituted while preserving the initial letter, the word class as well as the overall rhyme and rhythm. A substitution is chosen by exploiting semantic field opposition.

Sjöbergh and Araki’s (2009) ambiguous compound generator also leverages WordNet to create jokes, this time however focusing less on inter-word relationships, but more on the provided definitions and example sentences. The system consists of two modules, creating two types of jokes, each making use of possibly ambiguous compound nouns. The first module creates jokes with the template *‘I saw a <noun1> <noun2>. She (<noun1>) <WordNet example sentence>.’* For the two noun slots, the system selects compound nouns from WordNet where both parts also occur as single entries, the first as noun and the second as noun and verb. For the verb, one of the example sentences is extracted in order to complete the template to a joke such as *‘I saw a fish stick. She (the fish) stuck her thumb in the crack.’* The audience initially assumes that *fish stick* is a composite, as this is the more obvious interpretation. However, this expectation is disrupted in the second sentence, when the rear part of the supposed composite turns out to be a verb. The first sentence is now reanalyzed, and the incongruity is resolved. The
