# A Survey on Approaches to Computational Humor Generation

**Miriam Amin** and **Manuel Burghardt**  
Computational Humanities Group, Leipzig University  
`miriam.amin@studserv.uni-leipzig.de`,  
`burghardt@informatik.uni-leipzig.de`

## Abstract

We provide a comprehensive overview of existing systems for the computational generation of verbal humor in the form of jokes and short humorous texts. Considering linguistic humor theories, we analyze the systematic strengths and drawbacks of the different approaches. In addition, we show how the systems have been evaluated so far and propose two evaluation criteria: humorousness and complexity. From our analysis of the field, we conclude new directions for the advancement of computational humor generation.

## 1 Introduction

Since the early 1990s, computer scientists and linguists have been trying to create jokes using algorithms. Despite this longstanding research and the current evolution of powerful approaches in deep learning and neural networks – which are very well able to simulate human behavior and creativity, e.g. with the composition of pop music (Chu et al., 2017), poetry (Ghazvininejad et al., 2017) or abstract paintings (Li et al., 2019) – no system has been able to imitate human humor and to generate jokes like a human until today. From a research perspective, the task at hand is called *humor generation*. It is part of the broader field of *computational humor* and the output of humor generation systems are typically, but not exclusively, jokes. Besides the creation of humor, the following aspects are relevant for the field of computational humor as a whole:

- **Humor recognition** is dealing with algorithms deciding whether a given sentence expresses a certain degree of humor (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005; Barbieri and Saggion, 2014; Cattle and Ma, 2018; Morales and Zhai, 2017). A related task is humor prediction (Chen and Lee, 2017).

- **Humor adaption systems** are systems that learn a person’s humor preference and adapt their performance according to it (Weber et al., 2018; Winters et al., 2018).

- **Computational humor evaluation** research is concerned with the problem of how to evaluate a humor generating system (Valitutti, 2011; Braslavski et al., 2018).

- **Computational humor applications** are wide spread and range from systems that help mentally challenged children to learn and comprehend complex communication situations (Ritchie et al., 2007; Shah et al., 2016) to applications that can be used to make human computer interaction more pleasant on the human side (Binsted, 1995; Stock, 2006; Iwakura et al., 2018).

- **Computational humor datasets and corpora** are collected and published with the purpose of facilitating humor research methods using data analysis, statistical learning or deep learning. They range from data about humor norms of English words (Engelthaler and Hills, 2017), over data that conveys pairs of newspaper headlines with a humorous counterpart (Hossain et al., 2019) to multimodal data that includes not only linguistic, but also acoustic and facial expression features as reaction to humorous expressions in TED talks (Hasan et al., 2019).

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License. License details:  
`http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/`

*Proceedings of LaTeCH-CLfL 2020, pages 29–41*  
Barcelona, Spain (Online), December 12, 2020.
