With regard to complexity, we assigned rank 3 to systems without template that restricts syntactical and lexical features, rank 2 to systems that have either a variety of different templates or template with variable slots that are large enough to allow a lexical diversity and rank 1 to systems that have only one template.

This analysis reveals the strengths and weaknesses of the two approaches to humor generation. The table clearly shows that none of the systems reaches the highest rank in humorousness as well as in complexity. The template-based approaches fill the higher ranks for humorousness by implicitly including humor theory through their constraints and metrics. The neural systems on the other hands are not capable of generating humorous text at all, scoring the lowest ranks. Nonetheless, these systems reach the highest scores in complexity through their learned language model, consequently being able to generate a large variety of text. The template-based approaches fail to reach that level of complexity.

## 5 Conclusion: Toward Better Humor Generation Systems by Means of Linguistic Humor Theories

Our survey shows that even after more than 25 years of work on humor generation, further research needs to be conducted in order to create a system that generates text that fulfils theory-driven criteria for humor and that is able to produce a variety of texts, regarding syntactical structures and joke mechanisms. It is somewhat surprising that almost none of the present approaches refers to a linguistic humor theory explicitly. The initially introduced humor theories and their evolution, however, make very clear that textual humor is evoked by complex semantic mechanisms. A number of requirements about the involved concepts and their semantic relationships needs to be fulfilled in order to create a text that is actually humorous rather than just puzzling. These theories enable us to explain why some texts are funny and make people laugh and others do not. Hence, we believe that considering these existing humor theories will be an important step to overcome the limitations of existing joke generators.

We regard the *surprise ambiguation model* and the SSTH as the most interesting theories. The *surprise ambiguation model*, as formalized by Ritchie (1999), defines a small set of properties and entities. Based on the three entities $M_1$ – the obvious interpretation of the set-up, $M_2$ – the hidden interpretation of the set-up and $M_3$ – the meaning of the punchline, the model defines the following relations and properties involved in humorous texts: *Obviousness* ($M_1$ is more likely than $M_2$ to be noticed by the reader), *conflict* ($M_3$ does not make sense with $M_1$), *compatibility* ($M_3$ does not make sense with $M_2$), *comparison* (there is some contrastive relationship between $M_1$ and $M_2$) and *inappropriateness* ($M_2$ is inherently odd or a taboo). Winters et al. (2019 and 2018) already used these properties to identify and validate a set of metrics that are used by machine learning algorithms to extract features from existing jokes. Also, the concept of humor postulated by the SSTH has very few requirements that could be formalized pretty easily. The SSTH even implicitly gives an instruction of how a joke can be constructed from non-humorous content. In Suls’ two-stages model on the other hand, whether something is humorous or not is dependent on the presence of a cognitive rule. However, a cognitive rule can be anything and is therefore not very feasible for being modeled computationally. The GVTH focuses more on a representation of the differences of jokes rather than on the humor mechanism itself.

We see great potential for the improvement of existing approaches to computational humor generation by taking into account these theoretical approaches to humor and hope that this survey will pave the way for further, more theory-driven research in this direction.

## References

Salvatore Attardo. 1994. *Linguistic Theories of Humor*. Walter de Gruyter.

Francesco Barbieri and Horacio Saggion. 2014. Automatic Detection of Irony and Humour in Twitter. In *Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Computational Creativity, ICCC 2014*, pages 155–162, Ljubljana, Slovenia. Association for Computational Creativity.
