Graeme Ritchie. 2001. Current Directions in Computational Humour. *Artificial Intelligence Review*, 16(2):119–135.

Graeme Ritchie, Ruli Manurung, Helen Pain, Annalu Waller, Rolf Black, and Dave O Mara. 2007. A practical application of computational humour. In *Proceedings of the 4th International Joint Workshop on Computational Creativity*, London, UK. Association for Computational Creativity.

Thomas R. Shultz. 1974. Development of the Appreciation of Riddles. *Child Development*, 45(1):100–105.

Jonas Sjöbergh and Kenji Araki. 2008. A Complete and Modestly Funny System for Generating and Performing Japanese Stand-Up Comedy. In *COLING 2008, 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Posters Proceedings*, pages 111–114, Manchester, UK. Coling 2008 Organizing Committee.

Jonas Sjöbergh and Kenji Araki. 2009. A Measure of Funniness, Applied to Finding Funny Things in WordNet. In *Proceedings of the Conference of the Pacific Association for Computational Linguistics 2009*, page pp 236-241. Pacific Association for Computational Linguistics.

Robyn Speer, Joshua Chin, and Catherine Havasi. 2017. ConceptNet 5.5: An open multilingual graph of general knowledge. In *Proceedings of the Thirty-First AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, pages 4444–4451, San Francisco, California, USA. AAAI Press.

Oliviero Stock. 2006. Password swordfish: Verbal humor in the interface. *Humor - International Journal of Humor Research*, 16(3):281–295.

Oliviero Stock and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. The Act of Creating Humorous Acronyms. *Applied Artificial Intelligence*, 19(2):137–151.

Jerry M. Suls. 1972. A Two-Stage Model for the Appreciation of Jokes and Cartoons: An Information-Processing Analysis. In *The Psychology of Humor*, pages 81–100. Elsevier.

Julia M. Taylor. 2017. Computational treatments of humor. In Salvatore Attardo, editor, *The Routledge Handbook of Language and Humor*, pages 456–471. Routledge.

Alessandro Valitutti. 2011. How many jokes are really funny? Toward a New Approach to the Evaluation of Computational Humor Generators. In Bernadette Sharp, Michael Zock, Michael Carl, and Arnt Lykke Jakobsen, editors, *Human-Machine Interaction in Translation: Proceedings of the 8th International NLPCS Workshop*, volume 41, pages 189–200, Frederiksberg, Denmark. Samfundslitteratur.

Alessandro Valitutti, Antoine Doucet, Jukka M. Toivanen, and Hannu Toivonen. 2016. Computational generation and dissection of lexical replacement humor*. *Natural Language Engineering*, 22(5):727–749.

Alessandro Valitutti, Antoine Doucet, Hannu Toivonen, and Jukka M. Toivanen. 2013. “Let Everything Turn Well in Your Wife”: Generation of Adult Humor Using Lexical Constraints. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Volume 2: Short Papers*, Sofia, Bulgaria. Association for Computer Linguistics (ACL).

Klaus Weber, Hannes Ritschel, Ilhan Aslan, Florian Lingenfelser, and Elisabeth André. 2018. How to Shape the Humor of a Robot - Social Behavior Adaptation Based on Reinforcement Learning. In *Proceedings of the 20th ACM International Conference on Multimodal Interaction*, pages 154–162, New York, NY, USA. Association of Computing Machinery (ACM).

Thomas Winters, Vincent Nys, and Daniel De Schreye. 2018. Automatic Joke Generation: Learning Humor from Examples. In Norbert Streitz and Shin’ichi Konomi, editors, *Distributed, Ambient and Pervasive Interactions: Technologies and Contexts*, pages 360–377. Springer International Publishing.

Thomas Winters, Vincent Nys, and Danny De Schreye. 2019. Towards a General Framework for Humor Generation from Rated Examples. In *Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Computational Creativity*, pages 274–281, Charlotte, North Carolina, USA. Association for Computational Creativity (ACC).
