Kim Binsted. 1995. Using Humour to Make Natural Language Interfaces More Friendly. In *Proceedings of the AI Alife and Entertainment workshop, Fourteenth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. IJCAI Organization.

Kim Binsted and Graeme Ritchie. 1994. An implemented model of punning riddles. In *Proceedings of the 12th National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI ’94)*, volume 1, pages 633–638, Menlo Park, CA, USA, July. Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI).

Kim Binsted and Graeme Ritchie. 1997. Computational rules for generating punning riddles. *Humor: International Journal of Humor Research*, 10(1):25–76.

Pavel Braslavski, Vladislav Blinov, Valeria Bolotova, and Katya Pertsova. 2018. How to Evaluate Humorous Response Generation, Seriously? In *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Human Information Interaction & Retrieval (CHIIR ’18)*, pages 225–228, New York, NY, USA. Association of Computing Machinery (ACM).

Andrew Cattle and Xiaojuan Ma. 2018. Recognizing Humour using Word Associations and Humour Anchor Extraction. In *Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING ’18)*, pages 1849–1858. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

Lei Chen and Chong MIn Lee. 2017. Predicting Audience’s Laughter Using Convolutional Neural Network. In *Proceedings of the 12th Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications (BEA@EMNLP ’17)*, Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

Hang Chu, Raquel Urtasun, and Sanja Fidler. 2017. Song From PI: A Musically Plausible Network for Pop Music Generation. In *Workshop Track Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR ’17)*, Toulon, France. International Conference on Representation Learning.

Pawel Dybala, Michal Ptaszynski, Shinsuke Higuchi, Rafal Rzepka, and Kenji Araki. 2008. Humor Prevails! - Implementing a Joke Generator into a Conversational System. In Wayne Wobcke and Mengjie Zhang, editors, *AI 2008: Advances in Artificial Intelligence*, volume 5360 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 214–225. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg.

Tomas Engelthaler and Thomas Hills. 2017. Humor norms for 4,997 English words. *Behavior Research Methods*, 50(3):1116–1124.

Susan Fitt. 2002. Unisyn Lexicon. http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/unisyn/

Marjan Ghazvininejad, Xing Shi, Jay Priyadarshi, and Kevin Knight. 2017. Hafez: an interactive poetry generation system. In *Proceedings of ACL 2017, System Demonstrations*, pages 43–48, Vancouver, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

Md Kamrul Hasan, Wasifur Rahman, Amir Zadeh, Jianyuan Zhong, Md Iftekhar Tanveer, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Mohammed E. Hoque. 2019. UR-FUNNY: A Multimodal Language Dataset for Understanding Humor. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP ’19)*, pages 2046–2056, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

Christian Hempelmann. 2008. Computational humor: Beyond the pun? In Victor Raskin, editor, *The Primer of Humor Research*, volume 8 of *Humor Research*, pages 333–360. Mouton de Gruyter.

Bryan Anthony Hong and Ethel Ong. 2009. Automatically Extracting Word Relationships As Templates for Pun Generation. In *Proceedings of the Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity (CALC ’09)*, pages 24–31, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, and Michael Gamon. 2019. “President Vows to Cut \<Taxes\> Hair”: Dataset and Analysis of Creative Text Editing for Humorous Headlines. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (NAACL-HLT ’19)*, pages 133–142, Minneapolis, MN, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).
