second type of joke Sjöbergh and Araki’s system produces, follows the template ‘*<WordNet definition <noun1> <noun2>>.*’ For this, compounds are selected when they contain at least one word that is included in WordNet itself, and by changing one letter that word must become another word present in WordNet. This compound is combined with one entry that has the original compound in its WordNet definition. From the exemplary compound ‘*god of war*’ this would render ‘*Ares: (Greek mythology) Greek god of car*’. To reduce the number of jokes, the authors implement a measure of funniness and only output jokes above a certain threshold. The measure is calculated by the relation of the frequency of the selected compound between a joke corpus and a non-humorous corpus.

Hong and Ong’s (2009) system uses WordNet’s relation synonymy and UniSyn’s pronunciation information alongside with any semantic relationship retrieved from ConceptNet. Their system creates punning riddles similar to Binsted and Ritchie’s JAPE. This time, however, the algorithm is designed to first learn question-answer joke patterns from examples and then create new jokes according to the patterns. To create joke patterns, the algorithm called T-PEG marks nouns, adjectives and verbs in every joke from a POS-tagged joke corpus as candidate variables. For every tuple of candidate variables in a joke, T-PEG determines the lexical, phonetical or semantical relationship between the two variables. Those candidate variables with at least one relationship with another candidate are the final variables in the learned template. For example, from the source pun ‘*Which bird can lift the heaviest weights? The crane.*’, T-PEG extracts the sentence template ‘*Which <X1> can <X3> the heaviest <X6>? The <Y1>.*’ and the word relationships ‘*X1 ConceptuallyRelatedTo X6*’, ‘*X6 ConceptuallyRelatedTo X1*’, ‘*Y1 IsA X1*’, ‘*X6 CapableOfReceivingAction X3*’, ‘*Y1 CapableOf X3*’ and ‘*Y1 UsedFor X3*’. From the 39 templates the algorithm extracted, the authors found 27 (69 %) to be usable. To generate jokes, T-PEG uses the library of patterns and WordNet, Unisyn and ConceptNet to find fitting words for the slots and a keyword input from the user as a starting point.

**Quantitative measures for variable selection**

On the contrary to the aforementioned systems, joke generators using quantitative measures implement hypotheses about the nature of the relations, which are not expressed in explicit variable relationships but in quantitative measures, for instance n-gram co-occurrence.

Labutov and Lipson (2012a) are the first (and only) authors to explicitly implement a linguistic humor theory, based on cycles within the knowledge graph of ConceptNet. The theoretic framework they refer to is the *script-based semantic theory of humor* (SSTH) (Raskin, 1984), according to which a text is humorous (i.e. a joke) if it satisfies the following conditions: it suits partly or completely to two different scripts and these two scripts are opposite. Instead of explicitly defining the relationships between the concepts, like in STANDUP, the authors model their assumptions of how to retrieve concepts and their relations that form a joke from ConceptNet probabilistically. Based on the premise that paths in ConceptNet can be represented as scripts, the authors hypothesize that circuits, i.e. two paths that have the same root and end node, are joke candidates. Figure 2 shows an example of a circuit.

[Figure: Semantic circuit diagram with seed “computer”; arrows labeled “AtLocation” to “MIT”, “IsA” from “MIT” to “hell”, “HasProperty” from “hell” to “hot”, and “NotDesires” from “computer” to “hot”.]

Figure 2: Example of a semantic circuit that constitutes a joke. From: Labutov and Lipson, 2012

From a seed concept, the algorithm performs a depth-first search and selects candidate paths, represented as a chain of relations between concepts. Modeling SSTH’s script overlap, one condition for selection of a candidate path is the maximum path overlap. In order to create a meaningful and reasonable script in human language, the maximum likelihood of transition between the relations is also considered. The transition probabilities were learned before. From the found script pairs, the ones with maximum inter-script incongruity are selected. To measure incongruity, an algorithm clusters all concepts in ConceptNet, so that related concepts form one cluster. The jokes are created with a small number of templates similar to the form ‘*Why does the A do B? Because the A is D.*’ An example of a joke created by the system is ‘*Why is the computer hot in MIT? Because MIT is hell.*’
