| Source | Edit Dist | Humor | Coherence |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Non-Humor | - | 16.8% | 92.8% |
| GPT-4 Unfuns | 6.6 | 16.0% | 93.6% |
| + GPT-4 Filter | 6.9 | 3.6% | 89.3% |
| Humor | - | 48.0% | 93.6% |

Table 3: Human evaluations and edit distance of original and synthetic English-Hindi Tweet data (Khandelwal et al., 2018). $n = 125$ per approach.

($\Delta_{Mistral} = -3.8\%$ and $\Delta_{RoBERTa} = -2.8\%$). In contrast, classifiers trained with real news headlines as unfunny data perform poorly, highlighting the importance of aligned data for this task. However, we find that not all aligned data is created equal, and that classifiers perform significantly worse when trained on synthetic *humor* data relative to human-edited data ($\Delta < -10\%$). Even data from our ROBERTA-SWAP unfun baseline dramatically outperforms, or is on par with, all synthetic humor approaches. The edit distances demonstrate that each approach retains a large portion of the original humorous text. However, GPT-4 and GPT-3.5 tend to modify headlines more than human players (3.8 and 4.5 vs 2.9).

**Human Evaluations** Table 2 displays the results from our human evaluations. All approaches for generating synthetic humor significantly underperform *Onion* headlines on funniness and realness ratings ($p < 0.05$). Notably, we do not observe a significant improvement between GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. In contrast, synthetic unfuns from both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 were significantly more likely than human unfuns to be rated as real news headlines. They were also rated as similarly unfunny and more grammatical and coherent. Surprisingly, our simple ROBERTA-SWAP approach also performed comparably with Unfun players on funniness and real headline metrics, but underperformed on coherence. Together, these results indicate that current LM-based methods underperform satirical writers on *humor generation*, but can outperform human crowd-workers at *editing away* humor in satire to craft aligned datasets.

## 4 Extending Unfun to Other Languages

Recent work has found that GPT-4 exhibits strong multilingual capabilities (Møller et al., 2023; Jiao et al., 2023; Ahuja et al., 2023). Motivated by these findings, we investigate whether its ability to edit away humor generalizes to other languages and forms of joke.

### 4.1 Experimental Setup

We consider an existing corpus of code-mixed English-Hindi tweets, previously annotated as humorous or non-humorous (Khandelwal et al., 2018). Here, we prompt GPT-4 to unfun humorous tweets. To remove low quality results, we secondarily filter outputs that GPT-4 still classifies as humorous. We provide additional details on dataset preparation in Appendix A.1.2 and English-Hindi unfun generation in A.2.

We perform a **human evaluation** with bilingual annotators who rated these unfunned outputs from GPT-4 alongside samples from the original dataset. We also run an **automatic evaluation**, testing the performance of humor classifiers trained with different proportions of synthetic non-humorous data. We evaluate on holdout synthetic data rated by the annotators as coherent and successfully non-humorous. For the humor classifier, we fine-tune an XLM-ROBERTA model (Conneau et al., 2020) previously fine-tuned on English-Hindi Twitter data (Nayak and Joshi, 2022).

### 4.2 Results

Tables 3 and 4 contain the human evaluations and automatic results for English-Hindi data. GPT-4 edited texts were rated comparably to non-humorous human tweets despite being derived from humorous tweets, which were rated as humorous by our annotators (48%) of the time. Filtering with GPT-4 yielded a smaller sample (56/125) that was rated as much less humorous (3.6%). These results demonstrate that GPT-4 is able to reliably unfun English-Hindi tweets, but with more edits than American satirical headlines (6.6 vs 3.8). Additionally, unfunned data can provide a challenging adversarial dataset. In Table 4 we evaluate the performance of humor classifiers on human-vetted unfunned data. When trained on the original dataset, the classifier fails to generalize to the unfunned samples and performs poorly (23% accuracy). Incorporating synthetic training data improves this metric at a cost to accuracy on humorous examples in the original dataset. Together, these results provide evidence that the humor classifier relies on superficial features to identify humorous text, and that, even with fine-tuning, the model struggles to recognize synthetic unfunny data.
