<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th rowspan="2">Source</th>
<th rowspan="2">Unfuns</th>
<th colspan="3">Original Dataset</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Balanced Accuracy</th>
<th>Humor</th>
<th>Non-Humor</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Original</td>
<td>22.6 (3.7)</td>
<td>67.9 (0.9)</td>
<td>80.3 (3.5)</td>
<td>56.9 (5.1)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(25%) Synth Unfuns</td>
<td>34.0 (8.4)</td>
<td>67.7 (1.7)</td>
<td>78.4 (3.3)</td>
<td>55.4 (5.9)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(50%) Synth Unfuns</td>
<td>57.7 (6.0)</td>
<td>62.1 (0.6)</td>
<td>68.4 (5.7)</td>
<td>55.9 (4.7)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 4: Automatic evaluations with English-Hindi synthetic data. We report median accuracies (and standard error) on a holdout set from the original dataset ($n = 591$) and the human-vetted unfuns ($n = 97$). We also report median class-level accuracies for the original dataset.

## 5 Discussion

Our results indicate that current LLMs struggle to generate humor, but can outperform crowd-workers at editing away (or *unfunning*) humor. We hypothesize that maximum likelihood training, combined with autoregressive sampling techniques, does not endow models with the creative spark required for joke writing, and instead lends itself to making high probability, reasonable substitutions to replace incongruous twists. Our evaluations on code-mixed English Hindi Twitter data indicate that, for GPT-4, this ability can impressively generalize to other languages and settings to create novel Unfun-like datasets. We are excited for future work that harnesses this capability and resulting data to improve humor detection and generation systems, and also to demystify fundamental properties of humor.

## 6 Limitations

We consider two settings, English satirical headlines and code-mixed English-Hindi tweets. Humor practices and references vary by culture (Alden et al., 1993; Jiang et al., 2019), and we leave investigating cultural impacts on LLMs and humor to future work. In both of our evaluations, the subjectivity of humor presents a challenge for our evaluations (Warren et al., 2021). We see evidence of this in Table 3, where only 48% of tweets previously annotated as humorous were also rated as humorous by our annotators, and where 16% of non-humorous tweets were rated as humorous. This likely reflects differences in background knowledge and context between annotators. Additionally, we note that human Unfun players were incentivized to perform minimal edits, which may have affected their human evaluation metrics and lowered edit distances. On average, however, GPT-4 performs less than one additional word edit, and several approaches, including ROBERTA-SWAP, were performant with lower edit distances than human players.

Another concern is data contamination (Sainz et al., 2023), and that a portion of the text from the Unfun corpus could have been trained on and memorized by the LLMs we evaluated. We investigate this concern in Appendix A.6. We note that our results on English-Hindi data show that GPT-4’s abilities generalize to a dataset where these pairs do not already exist on the internet.

## 7 Ethical Statement

Humor brings joy to people and plays a critical role in building and maintaining social relationships (Basso, 1979). However, its importance presents a double-edged sword; offensive and hurtful humor can cause real harms, and reinforce prejudice (Benatar, 1999). As a result, with their widespread adoption, it will be paramount for AI systems to be more capable of identifying and appropriately navigating jokes. We believe that our work on benchmarking LLM humor abilities and building challenging detection datasets is an important step in this direction. However, one possible concern is that malicious actors could leverage our *unfunning* approach to circumvent existing safeguards. In our experimentation, we found numerous settings where GPT-4 refused to generate jokes for offensive topics, but had no trouble editing texts to remove humor and offensiveness. This could enable building large parallel datasets of (offensive-text, non-offensive counterparts) that could then be used to train models for offensive joke generation.

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Eric Horvitz for guidance that helped shape the direction of this work. We are also grateful to Nicholas Deas, Debasmita Bhattacharya, and Maximillian Chen for their feedback. Additionally, we would like to extend our gratitude to Amith Ananthram, Samir Gadre, Fei-Tzin Lee, Matthew Toles, Elsbeth Turcan, Melanie Sub-
