and harnessing this capability could provide large paired datasets and support future work on improving humor detection and even generation.

Our contributions include benchmarking against human-curated data in the Unfun corpus, where we find that LLMs like GPT-4 and GPT-3.5 (OpenAI, 2023, 2022) can (1) outperform humans at removing humor from texts and that (2) this ability can be harnessed to generate high quality synthetic data for training humor classifiers. While these models *can* also be prompted to modify unfunny headlines to craft satire, we find that this ability is more inconsistent and lags behind satirical writers. Finally, we consider a code-mixed English-Hindi humor dataset to evaluate whether GPT-4’s “unfunning” ability generalizes to other domains and languages. We find that the resulting synthetic unfunny dataset is rated highly by bilingual annotators and poses challenging adversarial data for models trained on the original corpus.

## 2 Getting Serious with Language Models

We first revisit the Unfun task and resulting dataset, but with language models as players.

### 2.1 Unfun Dataset

In the original Unfun game (West and Horvitz, 2019), players were tasked with editing existing satirical headlines from *The Onion*,[^2] to transform the original satire into corresponding serious headlines. For example (removing “Delicious”):

“Scientists Discover ~~Delicious~~ New Species”

Players were rewarded for preserving token-level similarity with the original satire and for crafting convincingly serious headlines that other players rated as real. The resulting dataset includes approximately 11K unfunned headlines, with a subset rated by players. We leverage Unfun pairs, of satirical headlines and their unfunned counterparts, to benchmark the performance of LLMs at editing humorous texts against humans. We include additional details on data preparation in Appendix A.1.1.

### 2.2 Unfun Generation

We consider a few-shot setting (Brown et al., 2020), and provide LLMs with a short task description, along with a set of input-output exemplar pairs: (*humorous text, serious text*). Following Veselovsky et al. (2023), we encourage diversity in our synthetic data by sampling these exemplars from a subset of the existing pairs rated as high-quality by the original human players. For the unfunning task, we consider four popular LLMs: GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023) and GPT-3.5-TURBO, along with MISTRAL-7B-INSTRUCT and MISTRAL-7B (Jiang et al., 2023).

We also consider a lightweight alternative approach, ROBERTA-SWAP, that replaces low probability tokens using predictions from a RoBERTa masked language model (Liu et al., 2019). This approach is motivated by the Incongruity Theory of Humor (Hutcheson, 1750; Morreall, 2023), which associates humor with surprise, and previous work that has found humorous headlines to have higher perplexities (Peyrard et al., 2021). ROBERTA-SWAP edits satirical headlines by iteratively performing token swaps at $k$ positions. At each selected position, the original token is replaced with the highest probability token predicted by the model at that masked time-step. The $k$ swap positions are selected using the ratio between the probability of the original token and the probability assigned to the language model’s prediction. Additional details on unfun generation are included in Appendix A.2.1.

## 3 Unfun Evaluation

### 3.1 Experimental Setup

The existing Unfun data enables comparison of human and LLM players, via both **automatic** and **human** evaluations. We first evaluate the quality of synthetically generated data through automated evaluation on the downstream task of Unfun detection, and then follow this with a human evaluation.

#### 3.1.1 Automatic Evaluations

First, following recent work on synthetic data (Li et al., 2023; Veselovsky et al., 2023) we evaluate the data quality of outputs from LLMs by testing whether binary humor classifiers trained on the synthetic outputs can differentiate between actual humorous and unfunned headlines from the original Unfun dataset. We compare training on data from human players and actual satirical headlines to two configurations of synthetic data:

[*Synthetic* unfun; Original satire]  
[Human unfun; *Synthetic* satire]

These two configurations enable comparing the “unfunning” and joke writing capabilities of LLMs. Additionally, we consider the alternative of using

[^2]: https://www.theonion.com/
