### A.2.1 Unfun Data Generation

To generate synthetic Unfun for each LLM approach, we prompt each model with 8 randomly sampled in-context pairs from examples from our high quality subset that was set aside for prompting. For our ROBERTA-SWAP baseline, we replace tokens in the original satirical headline using a ROBERTA-BASE$^5$ model. To select each replacement, we iterate over and individually mask each token in the headline, and then predict the masked token:

$$
\hat{x}_i = \arg \max_x P(x \mid x_{\ne i}, \theta_{\mathrm{RoBERTa}})
$$

The position with the largest ratio between the predicted token and the original token probabilities is selected as the swap position:

$$
\text{swap position} = \arg \max_i \left[\frac{P(\hat{x}_i \mid x_{\ne i}, \theta_{\mathrm{RoBERTa}})}{P(x_i \mid x_{\ne i}, \theta_{\mathrm{RoBERTa}})}\right]
$$

We then replace $x_i$ with $\hat{x}_i$, and repeat this procedure $k$ times. We set $k = 3$ in our experiments.

### A.2.2 Hindi-English Data Generation

Unlike for Unfun, we do not have existing pairs of (un-humorous, humorous) English Hindi tweets. To remedy this, we first generated 50 examples in a zero-shot setting on our training set, and then selected nine high quality results to serve as our prompt. We additionally prompt GPT-4 with humorous and non-humorous texts to classify the resulting unfunned tweets as humorous or non-humorous. We filter unfunned tweets if they are still classified as humorous.

### A.3 Human Evaluations

We recruited 10 university students as annotators for the Unfun task. All annotators were American and native English speakers. For the English-Hindi dataset, we worked with three bilingual (Hindi and English) speakers. For both evaluations, we gathered three unique annotations per example, and assigned labels based on majority votes. Our Unfun evaluation assumes that any headline labeled as satirical or as real headline is grammatical and coherent. In contrast, we do not consider the grammatical label for English-Hindi data, due to the varied syntactic styles of tweets.

In Table 2, headlines are only rated "Real" if a majority of annotators rated the headline as "Real" (not "Satire" or "Neither"). Headlines are rated "Slightly Funny" if a majority of annotators assigned the headline *funniness* $\geq 1$, and "Funny" with *funniness* $= 2$. Our full instructions for both human evaluations are included in Appendix C.1. Tables 5 and 6 display inter-annotator agreement statistics.

| Human Label | Krippendorff |
|---|---:|
| Real | 0.507 |
| Funny | 0.333 |
| Very Funny | 0.214 |
| Grammar | 0.271 |
| Coherence | 0.214 |

Table 5: Krippendorff’s $\alpha$ results on Unfun dataset.

| Human Label | Krippendorff |
|---|---:|
| Coherence | 0.206 |
| Humorous | 0.377 |

Table 6: Krippendorff’s $\alpha$ results on English-Hindi dataset.

### A.4 Automatic Evaluations

On the Unfun dataset, for each synthetic Unfun approach, we generate data using the corresponding original 3882 training examples as inputs. We then evaluate classifiers trained on each dataset on the filtered high quality holdout data. To generate humor, we provide the unfunned example as input. To edit away humor, we provide the original satirical headline. We also provide in-context pairs drawn from the high quality prompt examples (See A.1.1). For our Real News baseline, we randomly select 3882 real news headlines to serve as non-humorous examples.

On the English-Hindi dataset, we compare training on the original dataset to training on data where (25%) and (50%) of non-humorous examples have been replaced by GPT-4 Filtered unfunned data. We evaluate classifiers on a holdout set from original dataset ($n = 591$), and also set of Unfuns ($n = 97$), derived from humorous examples in our holdout set and rated by our annotators as both coherent and non-humorous. All results for both datasets are computed over 5 seeds.

$^5$https://huggingface.co/FacebookAI/roberta-base
