- world outraged by north korea’s latest nuke test

- poverty rate hits 17-year high

- philippines: 5 foreign terror suspects in south

### C.2 English-Hindi Task Instructions

The following task instructions specify additional information based on the original instructions provided to annotators in (Khandelwal et al., 2018).

> *Each annotator has been assigned a series of text samples to review. First, you are asked to evaluate whether the text is h) humorous n) non-humorous*  
> *Secondarily, you will be asked to rate whether a text is coherent [no=0,yes=1] A tweet should be marked as coherent, even if you don’t have all the required backgroungd knowledge, as long as you can reasonably understand its meaning.*  
> *Additional info:*
>
> - *Any tweets stating any facts, news or reality should be classified as non-humorous.*
>
> - *Tweets which consisted of any humorous anecdotes, fantasy, irony, jokes, insults should be annotated as humorous*
>
> - *Tweets stating any facts, dialogues or speech which did not contain amusement should be put in non-humorous class.*
>
> - *Tweets containing normal jokes and funny quotes should be placed in the humorous category.*
>
> - *Some tweets consist of poems or lines of a song but modified. If such tweets contain satire or any humoristic features, then they could be categorized as humorous otherwise not.*
>
> ***Content Warning: Several tweets may contain references to upsetting/offensive content.***  
> EXAMPLES (We give the English Translations of each in brackets but they were not presented to the annotators):

**Humorous Tweets**

- Jhonka hawa ka aaj bhi chhup ke hilaata hoga na #Samir #HawaKaJhonka #BeingSalmanKhan *[Does the breeze still sway secretly today? #Samir #HawaKaJhonka #BeingSalmanKhan]*

- Working on a Sunday, chand rupye kamaane ke liye insaan apni khushiyon ka bhi sauda kar leta hai. *[Working on a Sunday, to earn a few rupees, a person sometimes even sacrifices their happiness.]*

- DJ wale babu bhosdike ab to gaana baja de iska.. bol bol ke kaan se khoon nikaal diya hai isne *[DJ wale babu, play the song now.. he has made our ears bleed by talking so much.]*

- Is Arvind Kejriwal new Che Guavara ? RT @ashutosh83B Is Rahul Gandhi new Arvind Kejariwal ? *[Is Arvind Kejriwal the new Che Guevara? RT @ashutosh83B Is Rahul Gandhi the new Arvind Kejriwal?]*

- Sukh bhare din beete re bhaiya, Babadook aayo re *[Brother, may the days filled with joy pass by. The Babadook has arrived.]*

**Non-Humorous Tweets**

- Apne support wale MLAs ko farmhouse main band kar lenge. Parade karayenge. Takhta palat karenge. Akhand chutiyap. *[We will lock up our supporting MLAs in the farmhouse. Parade them. Flip the throne. Absolute nonsense.]*

- Hrithik Roshan is using Vodafone. *[Hrithik Roshan is using Vodafone.]*

- PLEASE STOP MAKING JOKES ON SALMAN KHAN. BHAI BOLA NAHI CHALA RAHA THA GAADI TO NAHI CHALA RAHA THA. #BHAIROXX *[Please stop making jokes on Salman Khan. Bhai was not driving the car if he said he was not driving the car. #BHAIROXX]*
