biah, Emily Allaway, Tymon Nieduzak, Rattandeep Singh, Prabhpreet Singh Sodhi, and Apoorva Joshi for support on human evaluations.

## References

Kabir Ahuja, Rishav Hada, Millicent Ochieng, Prachi Jain, Harshita Diddee, Krithika Ramesh, Samuel C. Maina, Tanuja Ganu, Sameer Segal, Maxamed Axmed, Kalika Bali, and Sunayana Sitaram. 2023. Mega: Multilingual evaluation of generative ai. *ArXiv*, abs/2303.12528.

Dana L. Alden, Wayne D. Hoyer, and Chol Lee. 1993. Identifying global and culture-specific dimensions of humor in advertising: A multinational analysis. *Journal of Marketing*, 57:64 – 75.

Alexander Baranov, Vladimir Kniazhevsky, and Pavel Braslavski. 2023. You told me that joke twice: A systematic investigation of transferability and robustness of humor detection models. In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 13701–13715, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

K.H. Basso. 1979. *Portraits of ’the Whiteman’: Linguistic Play and Cultural Symbols among the Western Apache*. Cambridge University Press.

David Benatar. 1999. Prejudice in jest: When racial and gender humor harms. *Public Affairs Quarterly*, 13(2):191–203.

Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M. Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens Winter, Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners.

Alexis Conneau, Kartikay Khandelwal, Naman Goyal, Vishrav Chaudhary, Guillaume Wenzek, Francisco Guzmán, Edouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2020. Unsupervised cross-lingual representation learning at scale.

Tim Dettmers, Artidoro Pagnoni, Ari Holtzman, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2023. Qlora: Efficient finetuning of quantized llms.

Ira Glass. 2008. Tough room.

Fabrício Góes, Piotr Sawicki, Marek Grześ, Daniel Brown, and Marco Volpe. Is gpt-4 good enough to evaluate jokes?

Jack Hessel, Ana Marasovic, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. In *Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 688–714, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zachary Horvitz, Nam Do, and Michael L. Littman. 2020. Context-driven satirical news generation. In *Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Figurative Language Processing*, pages 40–50, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, and Michael Gamon. 2019. “president vows to cut <taxes> hair”: Dataset and analysis of creative text editing for humorous headlines. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 133–142, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, Tanvir Sajed, and Henry Kautz. 2020. Stimulating creativity with funlines: A case study of humor generation in headlines.

F. Hutcheson. 1750. *Reflections Upon Laughter: And Remarks Upon the Fable of the Bees*. Garland Publishing.

Sophie Jentzsch and Kristian Kersting. 2023. Chatgpt is fun, but it is not funny! humor is still challenging large language models.

Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Teven Le Scao, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, and William El Sayed. 2023. Mistral 7b.

Tonglin Jiang, Hao Li, and Yubo Hou. 2019. Cultural differences in humor perception, usage, and implications. *Frontiers in Psychology*, 10.

Wenxiang Jiao, Wenxuan Wang, Jen tse Huang, Xing Wang, and Zhaopeng Tu. 2023. Is chatgpt a good translator? yes with gpt-4 as the engine.

Martin Josifoski, Marija Sakota, Maxime Peyrard, and Robert West. 2023. Exploiting asymmetry for synthetic training data generation: SynthIE and the case of information extraction. In *Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 1555–1574, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Ankush Khandelwal, Sahil Swami, Syed S. Akhtar, and Manish Shrivastava. 2018. Humor detection in english-hindi code-mixed social media content : Corpus and baseline system.
