Zhuoyan Li, Hangxiao Zhu, Zhuoran Lu, and Ming Yin. 2023. Synthetic data generation with large language models for text classification: Potential and limitations. *ArXiv*, abs/2310.07849.

Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining approach.

Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. 2019. Decoupled weight decay regularization.

Anders Giovanni Møller, Jacob Aarup Dalsgaard, Arianna Pera, and Luca Maria Aiello. 2023. Is a prompt and a few samples all you need? using gpt-4 for data augmentation in low-resource classification tasks. *ArXiv*, abs/2304.13861.

John Morreall. 2023. Philosophy of Humor. In Edward N. Zalta and Uri Nodelman, editors, *The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy*, Summer 2023 edition. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University.

Ravindra Nayak and Raviraj Joshi. 2022. L3Cube-HingCorpus and HingBERT: A code mixed Hindi-English dataset and BERT language models. In *Proceedings of the WILDRE-6 Workshop within the 13th Language Resources and Evaluation Conference*, pages 7–12, Marseille, France. European Language Resources Association.

OpenAI. 2022. Chatgpt: Optimizing language models for dialogue.

OpenAI. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report.

Maxime Peyrard, Beatriz Borges, Kristina Gligorić, and Robert West. 2021. Laughing heads: Can transformers detect what makes a sentence funny?

Oscar Sainz, Jon Campos, Iker García-Ferrero, Julen Etxaniz, Oier Lopez de Lacalle, and Eneko Agirre. 2023. NLP evaluation in trouble: On the need to measure LLM data contamination for each benchmark. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023*, pages 10776–10787, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Veniamin Veselovsky, Manoel Horta Ribeiro, Akhil Arora, Martin Josifoski, Ashton Anderson, and Robert West. 2023. Generating faithful synthetic data with large language models: A case study in computational social science. *ArXiv*, abs/2305.15041.

Caleb Warren, Adam Barsky, and A. Peter McGraw. 2021. What makes things funny? an integrative review of the antecedents of laughter and amusement. *Personality and Social Psychology Review*, 25(1):41–65. PMID: 33342368.

Robert West and Eric Horvitz. 2019. Reverse-engineering satire, or “paper on computational humor accepted despite making serious advances”. In *Proceedings of the 33rd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*.

# A Appendix

## A.1 Data Preparation

### A.1.1 Unfun Corpus

We use the February 2, 2023 Unfun (West and Horvitz, 2019) database backup,[^3] and consider all valid unfunned headlines (i.e. not *None*). This results in 11831 pairs. A subset of these have ratings from other players. We use these to curate a **high quality** evaluation subset of pairs where:

- There is at least one annotation.

- The satirical headline has a funniness rating $\ge 0.8$.

- The unfunned headline has a funniness rating $\le 0.2$.

The resulting 867 pairs were split among prompt examples (10%), dev (30%), and test (60%) shards. For our training set, we consider the remaining headlines, again ensuring that there is no overlap with other shards. The resulting dataset has many instances where there are multiple unfunned counterparts for each satirical headline. As an additional step, we randomly filter our training, dev, and test shards so that there is only one unfunned headline per satirical headline. This results in a training set of 3882 unfuns, a dev set of 186 unfuns, and a test set of 375 unfuns, in each case, these are included alongside their corresponding satirical headlines. For an additional training data baseline, we also retrieve an equal number of real news headlines included in the Unfun database.

### A.1.2 Code-Mixed English-Hindi Humor

We use the version of the English-Hindi Humor dataset by Khandelwal et al. (2018) hosted on GitHub.[^4] We use the provided labels for the available data. Notably, a portion of annotated samples appear to be unavailable. We divide the available dataset ($n = 2951$) into training, dev, and test shards (60%, 20%, 20%). Additionally, we filter tweets containing links.

## A.2 Data Generation Details

We include our full prompts in Appendix B. For decoding hyperparameters, we use *top-p* = 0.85 and $\tau = 1.0$ for all LLMs.

[^3]: https://github.com/epfl-dlab/unfun

[^4]: https://github.com/Ankh2295/humor-detection-corpus
