### A.5 Humor Classifier Training

For the Unfun task, we fine-tune MISTRAL (Jiang et al., 2023)[^6] and ROBERTA (Liu et al., 2019)[^7] models. For Hindi-English, we consider HING-ROBERTA (Nayak and Joshi, 2022)[^8]. All models are trained with the AdamW optimizer (Loshchilov and Hutter, 2019) and a constant learning rate. Due to the class imbalance in the available English-Hindi dataset (39% non-humorous, 61% humorous), we weight the loss by the inverse proportion of class frequency.

We fine-tune our MISTRAL classifier with 4-bit quantized LoRA (Dettmers et al., 2023) and the addition of a classification head. For all classifiers, we first perform hyperparameter tuning on the original human authored datasets.

For the **Unfun dataset** we consider:

- Learning Rates $\in \{5e - 5, 2.5e - 5, 1.25e - 5, 6.25e - 6, 3.125e - 6, 1.5625e - 6\}$

- Batch Size $\in [32]$ (Due to resource constraints)

For the **English-Hindi Dataset** dataset we consider:

- Learning Rates $\in \{5e - 5, 2.5e - 5, 1.25e - 5, 6.25e - 6, 3.125e - 6, 1.5625e - 6\}$

- Batch Size $\in \{256, 128, 64, 32, 16, 8\}$

After selecting the highest performing configuration, we run each experiment with 5 seeds ([1234, 2345, 3456, 4567, 5678]). We include the most performant hyperparameters in Table 7. All model trains use a single NVIDIA A100 GPU. We estimate the total compute budget to be 200 hours.

### A.6 Considering Memorization

We investigate whether data contamination and memorization is affecting our results by testing how often synthetic unfuns or humor appear in the original Unfun corpus. We find that only a small fraction of outputs appear to match human-unfunned text or satire headlines. We include results in Table 8. Of these, the majority represent simple edits, indicating that the models may have rediscovered trivial unfuns. For example:

“Egypt plunges into state of ~~Middle East~~ crisis”

[^6]: https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1  
[^7]: https://huggingface.co/FacebookAI/roberta-base  
[^8]: https://huggingface.co/l3cube-pune/hing-roberta

## B Prompts

### B.1 Unfun Task Prompts

#### B.1.1 Humor Generation

**Chat Models**

> *"You are a helpful assistant that edits realistic headlines to make them humorous."*  
> {"role": "user", "content": \<Unfunned Headline>},  
> {"role": "assistant", "content": \<Satire Headline>}

**Completion Models**

> *"The following realistic headlines can be edited to be humorous:"*  
> "\<Unfunned Headline> -> \<Satire Headline>"

#### B.1.2 Unfun Generation

**Chat Models**

> *"You are a helpful assistant that edits humorous headlines to make them realistic."*  
> {"role": "user", "content": \<Satire Headline>},  
> {"role": "assistant", "content": \<Unfunned Headline>},  
> ...

**Completion Models**

> *"The following humorous headlines can be edited to be realistic:"*  
> "\<Satire Headline> -> \<Unfunned Headline>"

### B.2 English-Hindi Task Prompts

#### B.2.1 Unfun Generation

**Chat Models**

> *"Kya ye diye hue tweet ka humor wala part hata kar use normal bana sakti ho? Aur jitna ho sake utna punctuation use same rakhne ki koshish karna"* [*Can you remove the humorous part of the given tweets and make them normal? And try to keep the punctuation as much the same as possible.*].
