## References

[1] Huda Diab Abdulgaliil and Otman A Basir. Next-generation image captioning: A survey of methodologies and emerging challenges from transformers to multimodal large language models. *Natural Language Processing Journal*, page 100159, 2025. 1

[2] Salvatore Attardo and Victor Raskin. Script theory revis(it)ed: Joke similarity and joke representation model. 1991. 3

[3] Shuai Bai, Yuxuan Cai, Ruizhe Chen, Keqin Chen, Xionghui Chen, Zesen Cheng, Lianghao Deng, Wei Ding, Chang Gao, Chunjiang Ge, Wenbin Ge, Zhifang Guo, Qidong Huang, Jie Huang, Fei Huang, Binyuan Hui, Shutong Jiang, Zhaohai Li, Mingsheng Li, Mei Li, Kaixin Li, Zicheng Lin, Junyang Lin, Xuejing Liu, Jiawei Liu, Chenglong Liu, Yang Liu, Dayiheng Liu, Shixuan Liu, Dunjie Lu, Ruilin Luo, Chenxu Lv, Rui Men, Lingchen Meng, Xuancheng Ren, Xingzhang Ren, Sibo Song, Yuchong Sun, Jun Tang, Jianhong Tu, Jianqiang Wan, Peng Wang, Pengfei Wang, Qiuyue Wang, Yuxuan Wang, Tianbao Xie, Yiheng Xu, Haiyang Xu, Jin Xu, Zhibo Yang, Mingkun Yang, Jianxin Yang, An Yang, Bowen Yu, Fei Zhang, Hang Zhang, Xi Zhang, Bo Zheng, Humen Zhong, Jingren Zhou, Fan Zhou, Jing Zhou, Yuanzhi Zhu, and Ke Zhu. Qwen3-vl technical report, 2025. 2

[4] Davide Caffagni, Federico Cocchi, Luca Barsellotti, Nicholas Moratelli, Sara Sarto, Lorenzo Baraldi, Lorenzo Baraldi, Marcella Cornia, and Rita Cucchiara. The revolution of multimodal large language models: A survey, 2024. 3

[5] Hui Cai and Xing Yin. A review of western humor theories. *Foreign Language Research*, 2005. in Chinese. 3

[6] Yuyan Chen, Songzhou Yan, Zhihong Zhu, Zhixu Li, and Yanghua Xiao. Xmemecap: Meme caption generation with sub-image adaptability. In *Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International Conference on Multimedia*, pages 3352–3361, 2024. 3

[7] Can Cui, Yunsheng Ma, Xu Cao, Wenqian Ye, Yang Zhou, Kaizhao Liang, Jintai Chen, Juanwu Lu, Zichong Yang, Kuei-Da Liao, Tianren Gao, Erlong Li, Kun Tang, Zhipeng Cao, Tong Zhou, Ao Liu, Xinrui Yan, Shuqi Mei, Jianguo Cao, Ziran Wang, and Chao Zheng. A survey on multimodal large language models for autonomous driving, 2023. 3

[8] Arpad E Elo and Sam Sloan. The rating of chessplayers: Past and present. *(No Title)*, 1978. 6

[9] Sigmund Freud. *Jokes and their relation to the unconscious*. WW Norton & Company, 1960. 1, 2, 3, 4

[10] Yuncheng Guo and Xiaodong Gu. Mmrl: Multi-modal representation learning for vision-language models. In *Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference*, pages 25015–25025, 2025. 3

[11] Longzhen Han, Awes Mubarak, Almas Baimagambetov, Nikolaos Polatidis, and Thar Baker. Multimodal large language models: A survey. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.10016*, 2025. 3

[12] Md Kamrul Hasan, Wasifur Rahman, AmirAli Bagher Zadeh, Jianyuan Zhong, Md Iftekhar Tanveer, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Mohammed Ehsan Hoque. Ur-funny: A multimodal language dataset for understanding humor. In *Proceedings of the 2019 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing and the 9th international joint conference on natural language processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 2046–2056, 2019. 3

[13] David Heyd. The place of laughter in hobbes’s theory of emotions. *Journal of the History of Ideas*, pages 285–295, 1982. 1, 2, 3, 4

[14] Jiaxing Huang and Jingyi Zhang. A survey on evaluation of multimodal large language models, 2024. 3

[15] Yizhang Jin, Jian Li, Yexin Liu, Tianjun Gu, Kai Wu, Zhengkai Jiang, Muyang He, Bo Zhao, Xin Tan, Zhenye Gan, Yabiao Wang, Chengjie Wang, and Lizhuang Ma. Efficient multimodal large language models: A survey, 2024. 3

[16] Antonios Kalloniatis and Panagiotis Adamidis. Computational humor recognition: a systematic literature review. *Artificial Intelligence Review*, 58(2):43, 2024. 1

[17] Sean Kim and Lydia B Chilton. Ai humor generation: Cognitive, social and creative skills for effective humor. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.07981*, 2025. 1

[18] Takeshi Kojima, Shixiang Shane Gu, Machel Reid, Yutaka Matsuo, and Yusuke Iwasawa. Large language models are zero-shot reasoners. *Advances in neural information processing systems*, 35:22199–22213, 2022. 3

[19] Jiwei Li, Michel Galley, Chris Brockett, Jianfeng Gao, and William B Dolan. A diversity-promoting objective function for neural conversation models. In *Proceedings of the 2016 conference of the North American chapter of the association for computational linguistics: human language technologies*, pages 110–119, 2016. 6

[20] Runjia Li, Shuyang Sun, Mohamed Elhoseiny, and Philip Torr. Oxfordtvg-hic: Can machine make humorous captions from images? In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision*, pages 20293–20303, 2023. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7

[21] Zongxia Li, Xiyang Wu, Hongyang Du, Fuxiao Liu, Huy Nghiem, and Guangyao Shi. A survey of state of the art large vision language models: Alignment, benchmark, evaluations and challenges. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.02189*, 2025. 3

[22] Chia Xin Liang, Pu Tian, Caitlyn Heqi Yin, Yao Yua, Wei An-Hou, Li Ming, Tianyang Wang, Ziqian Bi, and Ming Liu. A comprehensive survey and guide to multimodal large language models in vision-language tasks. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.06284*, 2024. 3

[23] Chia-Wei Liu, Ryan Lowe, Iulian Vlad Serban, Mike Noseworthy, Laurent Charlin, and Joelle Pineau. How not to evaluate your dialogue system: An empirical study of unsupervised evaluation metrics for dialogue response generation. In *Proceedings of the 2016 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing*, pages 2122–2132, 2016. 6

[24] A Peter McGraw and Caleb Warren. Benign violations: Making immoral behavior funny. *Psychological science*, 21(8):1141–1149, 2010. 1, 2, 3, 4

[25] Chancharik Mitra, Brandon Huang, Tianning Chai, Zhiqiu Lin, Assaf Arbelle, Rogerio Feris, Leonid Karlinsky, Trevor Darrell, Deva Ramanan, and Roei Herzig. Enhancing few-shot vision-language classification with large multimodal model features, 2025. 3
