The ratings for this study were collected as part of a larger survey on social media trends (all survey items are included in the open science documentation). We have no theoretical reason to assume that the other survey materials would have a differential impact on participants’ ratings of the A.I.-produced vs. human-produced satirical headlines.

## Results

As pre-registered, we tested whether the A.I.-generated satirical headlines were more or less funny than headlines generated by *The Onion*’s professional comedic writers. To do so, we (a) compared participants’ mean funniness ratings for the headlines and (b) assessed how many participants rated the A.I.-generated headlines as funnier than the professionally written headlines.

As shown in the right-hand panel of Fig 1, participants’ mean ratings did not reveal a difference in perceived funniness ($M_{Onion} = 2.49$, 95% CI = [2.32, 2.66] and $M_{ChatGPT} = 2.37$, 95% CI = [2.19, 2.55]; $t(216) = 1.48$, $p = .14$). Of the four top-rated headlines, two were generated by professional writers and two by ChatGPT, which produced the most highly rated entry (“Local Man Discovers New Emotion, Still Can’t Describe It Properly”) and the fourth most highly rated entry ("Man Achieves Personal Best in Avoiding Eye Contact With Neighbors During Awkward Elevator Ride”).

To explore whether participants agreed more when rating the funniness of *The Onion*- vs. A.I.-generated responses, we compared the variance in ratings using the Fligner-Killeen test [30]. The variances in ratings were not statistically significant ($p > .05$; additional details in S1 File).

Participants who self-reported seeking out comedy more and reading more satirical news rated the headlines as funnier ($r_{ComedySeeking} = .29$, 95% CI = [.16, .41]); $r_{SatireExposure} = .38$, 95% CI = [.26, .49]), independent of whether they were produced by A.I. or professional writers. Of the 217 participants, 22 self-reported following *The Onion* on a platform (e.g., Instagram, Facebook, website, etc.). Only 2 participants reported having seen one of the presented headlines before the study; both recognized headlines were produced by *The Onion*.

Based on their mean ratings, 48.8% (95% CI = [.42, .56]) of participants preferred *The Onion*’s headlines, whereas 36.9% preferred the A.I.-produced headlines (95% CI = [.31, .44]) and 14.3% showed no preference (95% CI = [.10, .20]). As noted, these differences were not reflected in significant mean differences in participants’ ratings.

Finally, we searched online whether any of ChatGPT 3.5’s responses were copied from somewhere else. We did not find evidence that ChatGPT merely reproduced existing headlines.

## Discussion

In sum, ChatGPT produced novel, satirical news headlines of comparable quality to *The Onion*. Participants, on average, rated the headlines as similarly funny, indicating that the average participant did not discern a difference in quality. This is particularly interesting given the high standard of comparison (i.e., professional comedy writers) in this study. If LLMs are capable of producing comparable output to professional comedians, there are large economic implications for current and aspirational comedy writers. Future research should investigate the potential of using LLMs for comedic writing across other commercially successful formats such as script writing, cartoon captioning, and meme generation once LLMs begin to incorporate image generation capabilities.
