degrees ($M_{ChatGPT:Acronym} = 58.0\%$, 95% CI = [.51, .65]; $M_{ChatGPT:Fill\text{-}in\text{-}the\text{-}blank} = 50.5\%$, 95% CI = [.43, .58]; $M_{ChatGPT:Roast} = 73.0\%$, 95% CI = [.66, .79]).

Including the demographic variables in our analyses did not change our key finding, that is, the observation that participants evaluated the A.I.-generated jokes more favorably than the human-generated jokes. We explored if demographic variables predicted any differences in participants’ humor preferences for the A.I.-generated jokes over the human-generated jokes. We regressed the total difference in humor ratings of the A.I. (vs. human)-produced jokes onto the demographic variables (i.e., sex, age, political orientation) as predictors. None of the demographic variables predicted a relative preference for A.I.-produced jokes over human-produced jokes (see table of null results in S1 File).

We also explored if demographic variables predicted any differences in participants’ humor production performance. We regressed participants’ average humor production scores onto the demographics variables (i.e., sex, age, political orientation) as predictors. Age and sex did not predict peoples’ humor production performance. People who were more right-leaning on a 9-point bipolar scale [from -4 (*Extremely Left-leaning*) to 0 (*Moderate*) to 4 (*Extremely Right-leaning*)] created jokes that were perceived as slightly less funny ($b = -0.038$, $p = .043$; additional details in S1 File).

## Discussion

Despite ChatGPT’s inability to “feel” emotions, it outperformed the average human participant across all three humor production tasks. Overall, ChatGPT 3.5 performed above 63% to 87% of human participants depending on the humor test. ChatGPT 3.5 showed particularly strong performance in the roast joke task. We found this result particularly interesting given the aggressive nature of the task. Given that ChatGPT is designed not to generate any speech that could be considered offensive or hateful, the opposite prediction could have been made.

## Study 2: ChatGPT 3.5 vs. The Onion

Given ChatGPT’s strong performance in humor production relative to laypeople, we wondered how its jokes compare to those of professional comedy writers within a commercially successful industry. For this purpose, we assessed its ability to produce satirical humor. Satire is one of the oldest types of comedy and usually involves ridiculing the vices, follies, abuses, and shortcomings of another person, group of people, or society in general. Satire can be found in many popular comedy programs from sketch comedy in *Saturday Night Live* to news satire in *The Daily Show* and *The Onion*.

We compared ChatGPT 3.5’s ability to produce humorous, satirical news headlines to that of professional comedy writers at *The Onion*. As a program with a large print following, *The Onion* boasts millions of unique monthly viewers across its website and millions of followers across social media accounts [31], making it a highly successful comedic reference for comparison. Since Study 1 suggested that demographic characteristics exert little influence on the judgments of interest in these studies, we took advantage of a convenience sample of students for Study 2.

## Method

This study was pre-registered. Our pre-registration, materials, and data can be found at https://osf.io/hvtgc/?view_only=6c08679d4b9a4c8892096eb76afabd3c. Analysis was conducted in R [27].
