RESEARCH ARTICLE

# How funny is ChatGPT? A comparison of human- and A.I.-produced jokes

Drew Gorenz<sup>1,2*</sup>, Norbert Schwarz<sup>1,2,3</sup>

1 Department of Psychology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United States of America, 2 Mind & Society Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United States of America, 3 Marshall School of Business, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United States of America

\* gorenz@usc.edu

[Figure: Check for updates badge with circular bookmark icon and text “Check for updates”.]

OPEN ACCESS

**Citation:** Gorenz D, Schwarz N (2024) How funny is ChatGPT? A comparison of human- and A.I.-produced jokes. PLoS ONE 19(7): e0305364. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0305364

**Editor:** Ramona Bongelli, University of Macerata: Università degli Studi di Macerata, ITALY

**Received:** February 15, 2024

**Accepted:** May 28, 2024

**Published:** July 3, 2024

**Copyright:** © 2024 Gorenz, Schwarz. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.

**Data Availability Statement:** All relevant data are within the manuscript and its Supporting Information files.

**Funding:** Study 1 was supported by funds from the USC Dornsife Mind and Society Center (https://dornsife.usc.edu/mindandsociety/). The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.

**Competing interests:** The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.

## Abstract

Can a large language model produce humor? Past research has focused on anecdotal examples of large language models succeeding or failing at producing humor. These examples, while interesting, do not examine ChatGPT’s humor production abilities in ways comparable to humans’ abilities, nor do they shed light on how funny ChatGPT is to the general public. To provide a systematic test, we asked ChatGPT 3.5 and laypeople to respond to the same humor prompts (Study 1). We also asked ChatGPT 3.5 to generate humorous satirical headlines in the style of *The Onion* and compared them to published headlines of the satirical magazine, written by professional comedy writers (Study 2). In both studies, human participants rated the funniness of the human and A.I.-produced responses without being aware of their source. ChatGPT 3.5-produced jokes were rated as equally funny or funnier than human-produced jokes regardless of the comedic task and the expertise of the human comedy writer.

## Introduction

Are large language models (LLMs) capable of humor production? Creating humor is difficult. To be perceived as funny, jokes need to be surprising [1], but also benign and not too offensive [2, 3]. Few people receive formal training in how to create humor, but many may pick it up through hearing and seeing other jokes and recognizing patterns. Presumably, an LLM could learn through a similar process by analyzing massive amounts of data.

OpenAI’s ChatGPT is one of the fastest-growing LLMs and services in terms of users [4]. It has demonstrated exceptional performance on several tasks requiring knowledge and reasoning across many fields, including education, healthcare, text generation, human-machine interaction, and scientific research [5–9]. However, one major issue limiting the usefulness of these competencies is ChatGPT’s (and other LLMs’) proclivity to hallucinate [10–12]. Hallucinating “facts” by presenting false information as accurate limits the usefulness of LLMs in many contexts, from journalism to science, but is less of a concern for many forms of comedy and entertainment (such as satirical news), which are not held to the same accuracy standards. Despite its potential to disrupt the entertainment industry and teach researchers about the
