participants to generate one new, humorous phrase for each of the following three acronyms: “S.T.D.”, “C.L.A.P.”, and “C.O.W.” For the *fill-in-the-blank task*, we asked participants to create one humorous answer for each of the three items: “A lesser talked about room in the White House: ___”, “A remarkable achievement you probably wouldn’t list on your resume: ___”, “Worst first date activity: ___.” For the *roast joke task*, we asked participants to create a humorous, conversational response to fictional scenarios that require the respondent to describe a negative experience they just had (e.g., “Imagine that one of your friends wants your opinion on how well she sings. She sings a minute or two to demonstrate her voice, and you cringe—she might be the worst singer you’ve ever heard. When she asks, “So how was it?” you decide to be honest, so you say, “To be honest, listening to that was like ___"). These items were taken from the joke stem completion task used by Nusbaum and colleagues [26] (prompts are included in S1 File).

These tasks resulted in 945 human-produced comedic responses (105 participants x 1 response per prompt x 3 prompts x 3 tasks). After completing the humor production items, participants were asked if they copied and pasted any of their joke completions from an A.I. tool (i.e., ChatGPT or other) or from a website or social media account (i.e., the Onion, Clickhole, Reddit, etc.). They were told they would not be penalized for their honesty. Lastly, we asked participants to complete basic demographic questions such as their sex, age, and political orientation. To measure political orientation, we asked participants to summarize which position best represents their viewpoint on a 9-point Likert scale from -4 (*Extremely Left-leaning*) to 0 (*Moderate*) to 4 (*Extremely Right-leaning*).

We gave ChatGPT 3.5 the same tasks and instructions as participants, but we asked it to generate twenty (rather than one) humorous answers to each prompt, resulting in 180 A.I.-produced comedic responses (20 per prompt x 3 prompts for each task x 3 tasks).

## Humor ratings

**Participants.** To compare the funniness of the human responses to A.I. responses, we recruited a separate sample of N = 200 CloudResearch approved MTurk workers located in the United States ($M_{age}$ = 40.0, 41% female). Participants were paid $1.30 for participating. No participants were excluded. A sensitivity analysis indicated that our final sample size (n = 200; two-tailed, α = .05) offers .80 power to detect an effect size (*d*) as small as 0.199. Participants were recruited on a single day, 10/30/2023.

**Design.** Each participant rated the funniness of 54 responses, namely 3 human-produced and 3 ChatGPT 3.5-produced responses to each of the three items in each of the three tasks (acronym, fill-in-the-blank, and roast joke tasks described above). The to-be-evaluated responses were randomly chosen from the total set of 105 human-produced and 20 A.I.-produced responses per prompt generated during the humor production task. We did not include information about what source produced each joke, so participants could rate the humor of each joke without any preconceived bias. Data were collected via Qualtrics. Our analyses follow a 2 (Humor producer: A.I. vs. human) x 3 (Tasks: acronym, fill-in-the-blank, roast joke) within-subjects design. Participants’ funniness ratings serve as a measure of the quality of the humor produced by their peers and ChatGPT 3.5.

**Materials and procedure.** We asked participants to rate the humor of the comedic responses of a random subset (3 human- and 3 A.I.-generated) of the responses for each of the nine items. Participants made their humor ratings on a 7-point Likert scale (0 = *Not Funny at All*; 6 = *Very Funny*). Lastly, we asked participants to complete basic demographic questions such as their sex, age, and political orientation.
