## Ethics statement

The study was approved by the University of Southern California Institutional Review Board (APP-23-04250; Date: 8/31/2023). Data were collected via an online questionnaire and participants consented by checking a box before starting the survey.

## Participants

To compare the humor production of ChatGPT 3.5 to *The Onion*, we recruited N = 217 students from the University of Southern California (USC) psychology subject pool ($M_{age}$ = 20.3, 62% female). No participants were excluded. A sensitivity analysis indicated that our final sample size (n = 217; two-tailed, α = .05) offers .80 power to detect an effect size (*d*) as small as 0.191. Participants were recruited from 10/20/2023 to 11/6/2023.

## Design

We used a 2 (Source: A.I. vs. *The Onion*) within-subjects design to test humor production performance. Participants rated the funniness of 10 satirical headlines in a randomized order, 5 randomly chosen from a set of 20 headlines from *The Onion*, and 5 randomly chosen from a set of 20 headlines from ChatGPT. We did not include information about what source produced each joke, so participants could rate the humor of each joke without any preconceived bias.

## Materials and procedure

Because ChatGPT 3.5 does not regularly receive the latest world news updates, it cannot generate satirical headlines about recent political, entertainment, or sports events. Hence, we decided to draw on *The Onion’s* ‘Local’ news section, which covers more timeless topics. This also ensures easier comparability with future replications.

We retrieved the last 50 ‘Local’ headlines published in *The Onion* before October 1, 2023 (e.g., “Man Locks Down Marriage Proposal Just As Hair Loss Becomes Noticeable” [32] and “Woman Slips Lifeguard \$20 Bill To Let Her Drown” [33]) (see S1 File). We provided them to ChatGPT 3.5, asking it to produce 20 new headlines in this style. The prompt read:

> “*The Onion* is a satirical news organization. They posted the below humorous, satirical news headlines under their ’Local’ news section: (. . . .) Please generate 20 new humorous, satirical news article headlines similar to this style.”

The new headlines serve as the A.I.-generated stimulus set. In addition, we randomly selected 20 headlines from *The Onion’s* set of 50 published headlines as the human-generated set.

As in Study 1, we asked participants to rate the funniness of the stimuli on a 7-point scale (0 = *Not Funny at All*; 6 = *Very Funny*). Afterward, they were asked if they had previously seen any of these satirical headlines. Then, they were asked, “How much do you seek out comedy (TV, YouTube, movies, shows, standup-comedy, memes, etc.) in your life?” and “To what extent do you read or consume satirical news (e.g., the Onion, Reductress, etc.)?”; both questions were answered on a 7-point scale (0 = *Not at All*; 6 = *Very Much*). Lastly, they were asked, “Do you follow the satirical news organization, *The Onion*, on any platform?”, and if so, “Which platforms (e.g., Instagram, Facebook, etc.) do you follow *The Onion* on?” They also reported their age, gender, and political orientation. The survey was presented via Qualtrics. Written consent was obtained electronically.
