processes involved in creativity, little empirical research has addressed ChatGPT’s creative writing abilities, particularly, humor production.

The available research suggests that people don’t expect algorithms to be good at generating jokes or predicting their funniness [13]. Indeed, there are many examples of ChatGPT failing to identify utterances of humor [14, 15]. LLMs are trained to recognize, translate, predict, and generate speech, not to feel emotions. This poses unique questions about what it takes to generate humor. Without the ability to feel emotions, including those associated with appreciating a good joke, could an LLM produce good, novel jokes? If it cannot feel how funny its jokes are, would its jokes be less consistently funny than people’s jokes?

Evidence for ChatGPT’s actual abilities to produce humor has been mixed [16–18] and methodologically inconclusive. Past research reported scattered examples of the model succeeding or failing at producing humor in the eyes of the respective authors without a comprehensive evaluation of the output and without comparisons to human humor production. Hence, the largely anecdotal reports, while interesting, do not shed light on how funny ChatGPT-produced humor is to the general public, nor do they analyze ChatGPT’s humor-production abilities in comparison to humans’ abilities. To fill this gap, we explore how funny ChatGPT 3.5 is compared to humans.

## Present studies

A person’s jokes can be evaluated on the merits of their quality (i.e., how good the jokes are) and quantity (i.e., how many jokes are produced) [19]. While it is clear that LLMs can produce a high quantity of jokes on command, their quality is unknown. Hence, we examine the quality of A.I.-generated jokes in comparison to humans’ jokes in the present studies. Since greater creativity is needed in the creation of novel jokes rather than the mere reproduction of jokes, we focus solely on comparing the novel humor production of LLMs and humans.

One can assess how funny a person is through self-report questionnaires, reports from others, or performance tests (i.e., fill-in-the-blank, cartoon caption, etc.). Most humor production measures are performance tests, which are designed to capture the maximal quality with which one can produce humor spontaneously, whereas self-report and other-report measures may better capture the habitual frequency or motivation of a person to produce humor [19]. The responses to performance tests can be presented to a large audience of people to evaluate the funniness of different jokes, thus reducing reliance on a few idiosyncratic opinions. In the present studies, we test ChatGPT’s humor production against human humor production across four standardized comedic tasks. In Study 1, we compare ChatGPT’s humor production abilities to laypeople’s abilities on the same tests, and in Study 2, we compare ChatGPT’s production to the production of professional satire writers.

Because comedy and satire usually address a lay audience, we measure laypeople’s opinions instead of drawing on "comedy experts.” Research in many domains of art appreciation has shown that what experts appreciate and value differs from what general audiences appreciate and value [20–22]. Whereas lay judges draw on their affective response, experts focus on structural aspects of the artwork that laypeople may not even notice [23]. Compared to non-experts, experts show attenuated positive and negative emotional reactions to positively and negatively valenced art, respectively, and tend to appreciate negative art more [24]. Hence, we consider lay ratings of the funniness of A.I. comedy more informative for the present purposes than expert ratings. Audience responses are also more relevant than expert responses from an entertainment industry perspective–A.I.-generated humor will not threaten the livelihood of comedy writers when the audience doesn’t like the jokes.
