## Study 1: ChatGPT 3.5 vs. laypeople

We compared ChatGPT’s written humor production abilities to laypeople’s abilities across three diverse tasks involving different prompts. An *acronym task*, inspired by the popular party game “Quiplash” (featured in *Jackbox Games Volume 3*) [25], asked participants to think of a string of words to complete a given acronym (e.g., “C.O.W.”) in a novel and humorous way. The task requires one to think of words that are universally funny or can be combined to form a humorous phrase. The task provides character-based limitations for the words people can generate but does not impose semantic limitations on what the jokes can be about. A *fill-in-the-blank task*, inspired by the same party game, asked people to consider a question (e.g., “A lesser talked about room in the White House: ___”) and produce a funny answer to it. These prompts provide semantic-based rather than character-based limitations. For the example prompt, one must think of a potentially humorous answer that fits an audience’s associations with 1) “name for a possible room” and 2) the White House or 3) the U.S. presidency in general. Finally, a *roast joke task* (taken from Nusbaum and colleagues [26]) asked participants to imagine themselves in a scenario where they experience something negative (e.g., a friend cooks you a meal that is horrible or disgusting) and are told to be honest and humorous in describing how bad the experience was (e.g., “Wow that was so bad, _____”). Unlike the previous two tasks, this one specifically prompts participants to create an aggressive joke. This task also closely resembles aspects of humor production in everyday life in the sense that it involves reacting to everyday scenarios in a conversational style.

## Method

The study was pre-registered. Our pre-registration, S1 File, and data are available at https://osf.io/hvtgc/?view_only=6c08679d4b9a4c8892096eb76afabd3c. Analysis was conducted in R [27].

### Ethics statement

The study was approved by the University of Southern California Institutional Review Board (APP-23-04250; Date: 8/31/2023). Data were collected via an online questionnaire and participants consented by checking a box before starting the survey.

### Humor production

**Participants.** We used the services of CloudResearch.com to recruit a broad sample of Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) workers located in the United States (N = 123; mean age = 39.6 years, 41% female). Compared to regular MTurk samples, CloudResearch approved participants are more likely to pass attention checks, leave the survey window less often on easily searchable questions, provide more meaningful answers, better follow instructions, and work slowly enough to be able to read all the items [28, 29]. Participants answered comedic prompts and were paid $2.58 for participating.

Because we are interested in humor production and not humor *reproduction*, we excluded participants who self-reported copying and pasting their jokes from another source (i.e., an A. I. tool, humor website, or social media) rather than producing them themselves (N = 18), as pre-registered. This resulted in a final N = 105. Participants were recruited on a single day, 10/10/2023.

**Materials and procedure.** To evaluate humor production ability, participants completed three different humor tasks in a randomized order; each task had three items. Participants were told, “We are interested in humor. We will present you with 9 prompts. Please use your own imagination to create a new, humorous answer for each.” For the *acronym task*, we asked
