The content of jokes is only one aspect of comedy; another key aspect is delivery. “Text-only” jokes are often rated as less funny than jokes delivered in other formats (i.e., image and text, audiovisual) [39]. Who delivers the joke also matters. Nabi and colleagues [40] found that the same “text-only” jokes were rated as funnier when they were attributed to a famous comedian, Chris Rock, possibly because that attribution allowed readers to fill in imagined details of delivery. While ChatGPT seems to perform better than most people with the writing component of humor production, recipients’ humorous experience while reading the jokes may fall short of the experience offered by jokes that are delivered in richer formats, such as audiovisual jokes (e.g., sketch, improv, live-action, recorded videos of standup comedy) or memes (i.e., image and text), particularly when those jokes are attributed to and delivered by familiar and reputable comedy sources. At present, LLMs are severely limited in their delivery, which is why we restricted the present studies to “text-only” jokes. However, rapidly advancing A.I. technologies are bridging this gap by providing human-like text-readers that can synthesize voices, including those of professional comedians, with few data inputs [41]. Presently, someone could use an LLM to write a joke and another A.I. tool to deliver it in a familiar comedian’s voice. In the near future, these two steps may be consolidated into one, as some newer models of LLMs are developing voice-mimicking and image-generation capabilities (e.g., GPT-4o) [42–44]. These developments promise new avenues for exploring the delivery of comedic content through humans and AI.

ChatGPT has arrived at its present performance within a very short time. Updated versions of the same model have shown exponential improvements in tasks involving knowledge and analytical reasoning [45] and several competitive alternatives have already emerged with variations in their data inputs and functioning. To better understand the current trajectory of LLM humor production performance, future research could compare the performance of competing models and track whether they are getting better over time.

## Supporting information

**S1 File.**  
(DOCX)

## Acknowledgments

We thank Pragya Arya for comments and cooperation in the data collection.

## Author Contributions

**Conceptualization:** Drew Gorenz, Norbert Schwarz.

**Data curation:** Drew Gorenz.

**Formal analysis:** Drew Gorenz.

**Funding acquisition:** Norbert Schwarz.

**Investigation:** Drew Gorenz, Norbert Schwarz.

**Methodology:** Drew Gorenz, Norbert Schwarz.

**Project administration:** Drew Gorenz.

**Resources:** Drew Gorenz.

**Software:** Drew Gorenz.

**Supervision:** Drew Gorenz, Norbert Schwarz.
