## General discussion

Humor production is difficult and highly valued. The most successful standup comedians are paid $20 million per 1-hour show taping [34]. At present, there is a free, publicly available LLM that can quickly and flexibly generate many humorous responses to many different prompts. ChatGPT 3.5, an LLM, produced jokes that were funnier than the majority of laypeople’s responses across three different tests (Study 1) and no less funny than the professional comedy writers of a major satirical news organization (Study 2).

Our studies pose several new questions. If LLMs can produce humor better than the average person, to what extent do they understand it compared to the average person? To what extent can they accurately predict how funny different jokes are for different audiences? Is the capability to feel the emotions associated with appreciating a good joke (i.e., mirth and amusement) necessary to create good jokes? Our studies suggest that the subjective experience of humor may not be required for the production of good humor–merely knowing the patterns that make up comedy may suffice. Future research may fruitfully explore this issue.

That ChatGPT can produce written humor at a quality that exceeds laypeople’s abilities and equals some professional comedy writers has important implications for comedy fans and workers in the entertainment industry. For professional comedy writers, our results suggest that LLMs can pose a serious employment threat. The implications are more positive for people who merely want to reap the benefits of elevating their everyday communications with a dose of humor. They can turn to LLMs for help. Field studies show that resumes including humorous (vs. unhumorous) self-promotion receive greater interest from professional recruiters [35]. Beginning an email with humor can result in greater trust and satisfaction in negotiations [36]. Extending these lines of investigation, future research can systematically address whether and how using appropriately tailored A.I.-generated humor can improve people’s success in personal and professional contexts. To facilitate the use of A.I.-generated humor, we add some recommendations for how to prompt LLMs for humorous ideas in our discussion of the limitations of our studies.

## Prompting A.I. to produce humor

Similar to people, LLMs give higher quality and more relevant responses when provided with clear and specific instructions. In the emerging field of prompt-engineering, researchers demonstrated that incorporating context, examples, explicit constraints, and role-playing requests (e.g., "act as my nutritionist and give me tips about a balanced Mediterranean diet") can enhance the relevance and quality of LLM responses [37, 38]. To achieve optimal output from both A.I. and people in our studies, we provided clear instructions with specific situational prompts that included semantic or character constraints. These prompts contained several high-quality joke examples for the acronym and fill-in-the-blank tasks in Study 1 and 50 joke examples from *The Onion* in addition to the data ChatGPT already had from *The Onion’s* public webpage in Study 2. We caution that LLMs may produce lower quality jokes in response to more ambiguous prompts lacking in examples, constraints, or social context. For example, Jentzsch and Kersting [17] asked ChatGPT the same prompt, “Can you tell me a joke, please?” with only subtle variations in wording (e.g., "I would love to hear a joke.") one-thousand times. As may be expected, ChatGPT returned many redundant jokes of poor quality in response to these generic prompts and Jentzsch and Kersting [17] concluded that ChatGPT “is fun, but it is not funny.” Future research can systematically explore which prompt strategies help A.I. and people produce better jokes. For example, is ChatGPT funnier when it is first asked to imagine being a famous comedian? And to what extent do prompt strategies that improve LLM comedic output also improve human comedic output? Is ChatGPT a good testing ground for learning about prompts that can improve humans’ jokes?
