[Figure: Four user interface screenshots labeled “Baseline Ideation”, “Ideation with Chat Interface”, “Favorite Selection”, and “Image Creation”, showing a meme ideation interface, a chat interface, a favorite selection screen, and an image creation/editor screen.]

**Figure 3: User Interface Overview:Baseline Ideation, Ideation with Chat Interface, Favorite Selection, and Final Image Creation.**

analysis of themes and cultural relevance [19, 45], while quantitative approaches use machine learning models and sentiment analysis to predict meme virality based on textual and visual attributes [13, 34]. However, evaluating creative outputs poses challenges due to the subjective nature of creativity and humor, and the dynamic, context-dependent nature of memes [8].

## 3 Methodology

To explore the impact of human collaboration with LLMs on creative meme generation, we conducted a between-subject user study with three experimental groups. The following section presents the methodology of the user study.

### 3.1 Task

The participants’ task in the study was to generate captions for memes. More specifically, the task consisted of three steps:

**Ideation** In the first step, we displayed one of six background images of popular memes(Figure 2)to the participants and asked them to come up with as many captions as they could within five minutes. We asked participants to focus their ideas on one of three topics: *work*, *food*, and *sports*. The goal was to keep the ideas relatively constrained, for comparability but also not to overwhelm users with having to come up with arbitrary ideas. The interface(Figure 3) displayed a blank meme template as well as the instructions to the user. Users could then enter any ideas for image captions and they were then displayed in a list next to the instructions. Once the user had created ideas, they were also able to mark them as favorite, edit or remove them. For users in the treatment condition that had access to a LLM, this part of the interface also featured a chat interface where they could prompt the LLM(Figure 3). Any responses by the LLM were additionally processed to automatically determine whether the response contained any ideas. If this was the case, they were automatically extracted and added to the idea list.

**Favorite Selection** Once participants had completed the ideation step, they moved on to an overview of all the ideas they had come up with(Figure 3). From this full list, they had to select their top three ideas. These three ideas were then used in the last step.

**Image Creation** In the last step, we asked our participants to add their ideas as captions to the meme template. The meme editor allowed users to add text to the image in arbitrary chunks(Figure 3). Each chunk could then be positioned and resized, edited or removed.

Each experimental group used different methods for creating memes, comparing the effects of creativity driven solely by humans, human-AI collaboration, and entirely AI-driven creation.

The first group (baseline) participants independently generated ideas and created memes without external assistance by an AI tool or otherwise. The second group also involved human participants who had to come up with memes but had access to a conversational interface. Through it, they were able to prompt an LLM to support them with generating ideas. In the third group, ideas were generated fully autonomously by the LLM.

Following the main study, we evaluated the memes generated by the three groups in terms of their funniness, shareability, and creativity using a second online survey.

### 3.2 Procedure

For generating memes, after recording for their informed consent, we asked participants to spend at least four and at most five minutes on coming up with captions using our UI (Figure 4). Following this ideation phase, they selected their three favorite ideas and could then edit the image to add their idea as captions. After generating and downloading their creation, they moved on to the next image with a next topic. Each participant had to produce memes for three different combinations of images and topics. The permutation of image and topic was selected randomly but in a way that each participant used each image and each topic at most once. After generating ideas for three different topics and images, participants completed an survey recording feedback on their experience. The overall process of ideation, selecting favorites, editing the images, and completing the survey was scheduled to take no more than 40 minutes. For their work, participants received compensation equivalent to 15 USD.

Following this first phase, we continued with rating the generated ideas (Figure 5). Since each participant had to selected three favorite ideas for each of the three images they captioned, we gathered 882 ideas marked as favorites across both study conditions with human involvement. Due to technical problems, only 415 for the baseline conditions and all 441 for the collaborative condition were usable.

For each idea, we re-generated the captioned image to ensure consistent placement of the text. We then curated the images, excluding all those were the participants clearly entered a caption not matching the task or where the length of the caption obscured
