[Figure: Three violin/box plots titled “Funny”, “Creative”, and “Shareable” comparing “Human only” (gray), “Human-AI Collaboration” (green), and “AI only” (yellow), with significance brackets marked *, **.]

**Figure 8: Pairwise comparison of how participants rated the memes with respect to the three scales “funny”, “creative”, and “shareable”. (*: $p < 0.05$, **: $p < 0.01$, ***: $p < 0.001$, pairwise t-test/Mann-Whitney-U test, Bonferroni adjusted)**

**4.1.2** *Workload.* While there are significant differences for the number of created ideas, there is no evidence that this also affected the workload that was required to achieve this result. Statistical analysis of the Raw TLX showed no significant differences (Shapiro-Wilk test: $W = 0.980$, $p = 0.1632$, t-test: $t = -0.955$, $df = 88.811$, $p = 0.342$). We found the same to be true for each of the six TLX subscales, except for the question *“How hard did you have to work to accomplish your level of performance?”*, where participants using the LLM entered significantly lower values (Shapiro-Wilk test: $W = 0.934$, $p < 0.001$, Mann-Whitney-U test: $W = 755$, $p = 0.027$).

**4.1.3** *General Feedback.* Similarly, of the general questions about the user’s experience while creating the memes and the ideation process, we received responses that indicated no significant differences except for two questions.

For the first of these was the question whether participants felt that they created a lot of ideas. Results here match the actual idea count, with the LLM-supported users also subjectively noting that they created significantly more ideas (Shapiro-Wilk test: $W = 0.909$, $p < 0.001$, Mann-Whitney-U test: $W = 1308.5$, $p = 0.043$), although the difference is less stark than with the actual number of ideas.

For the question on perceived ownership *“The generated captions are my ideas”*, participants that did not use the LLM perceived a higher degree of ownership for the generated ideas (Shapiro-Wilk test: $W = 0.766$, $p < 0.001$, Mann-Whitney-U test: $W = 562$, $p < 0.001$). However, even when using the chat, participants still generally felt ownership for the ideas.

## 4.2 Meme Rating

In the second phase of our experiments, we had a group of people rate the memes according to three criteria: how funny they thought they were, how creative they considered them, and how likely it was that they would share them. Along with the memes from the two conditions before, we had an additional condition with memes created exclusively using AI with no human input.

Considering the fact that the data from the “funny” and “creative” scale were likely normally distributed (Shapiro-Wilk test: $W = 0.994$, $p = 0.062$ and $W = 0.995$, $p = 0.155$ respectively), we used the ANOVA and pairwise t-tests, Bonferroni adjusted, to compare these two. The third scale, “shareability” was likely not not normally distributed (Shapiro-Wilk test: $W = 0.988$, $p < 0.001$), we used the Kruskal-Wallis test instead as well as pairwise Mann-Whitney-U tests, also Bonferroni adjusted.

According to these tests, each condition showed significant differences, as shown in Table 1. The pairwise comparison highlighted that it were consistently the memes generated by the LLM alone that were rated more positive than those where created with human involvement. The only exception to this was “shareability” where the comparison between the cooperative and pure AI creation was not significant. Memes created by humans with the help of the LLM were not rated significantly different than those from the baseline, i.e. without AI, for any of the three dimensions.

To ensure any unintended side-effects by of the image or topic selection, we performed the same statistical analysis to determine whether the image or the topic had any notable influence on the rating. This showed that the ratings across the images are relatively consistent, with only one pairing of images showing significantly different ratings for the question how funny the memes were perceived. The topic, on the other hand, seems to have had an impact on the rating of the memes, since work related memes were consistently rated significantly more funny, creative, and shareable.

We therefore analyzed the three scales from the survey again for each topic individually (see Table 1), which demonstrated that the previously found significant differences do not come evenly from across all data but seem to stem primarily from the memes about the topic of “work”.

# 5 Discussion

The results of our study provide some early insights into how the availability of LLM support influences people’s creative process. Further, we investigated how the output of human-LLM co-creation is viewed, compared to purely LLM-generated content. In the following, we discuss our results with regard to the research questions.
