Table 1: Results of the statistical analysis of the meme ratings using ANOVA and Kruskal-Wallis test (underlined).

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th colspan="6">All topics</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th colspan="2">Shapiro-Wilk test</th>
<th colspan="4">ANOVA / Kruskal-Wallis test</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>W</th>
<th>p</th>
<th>df</th>
<th>F/χ²</th>
<th>p</th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Funny</td>
<td>0.994</td>
<td>0.062</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>6.971</td>
<td>0.001</td>
<td>**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Creative</td>
<td>0.995</td>
<td>0.155</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>5.793</td>
<td>0.003</td>
<td>**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Shareable</td>
<td>0.988</td>
<td>0.001</td>
<td>2</td>
<td><u>11.761</u></td>
<td>0.003</td>
<td>**</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th colspan="6">Memes about “work”</th>
<th colspan="5">Memes about “sports”</th>
<th colspan="5">Memes about “food”</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th colspan="2">Shapiro-Wilk</th>
<th colspan="4">ANOVA/<u>KW</u></th>
<th colspan="2">Shapiro-Wilk</th>
<th colspan="3">ANOVA/<u>KW</u></th>
<th colspan="2">Shapiro-Wilk</th>
<th colspan="3">ANOVA/<u>KW</u></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>W</th>
<th>p</th>
<th>df</th>
<th>F/χ²</th>
<th>p</th>
<th></th>
<th>W</th>
<th>p</th>
<th>df</th>
<th>F/χ²</th>
<th>p</th>
<th>W</th>
<th>p</th>
<th>df</th>
<th>F/χ²</th>
<th>p</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Funny</td>
<td>0.984</td>
<td>0.075</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>7.1</td>
<td>0.001</td>
<td>**</td>
<td>0.992</td>
<td>0.592</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>2.036</td>
<td>0.134</td>
<td>0.977</td>
<td>0.014</td>
<td>2</td>
<td><u>3.455</u></td>
<td>0.177</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Creative</td>
<td>0.981</td>
<td>0.034</td>
<td>2</td>
<td><u>11.22</u></td>
<td>0.004</td>
<td>**</td>
<td>0.991</td>
<td>0.435</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>2.095</td>
<td>0.127</td>
<td>0.985</td>
<td>0.095</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>0.608</td>
<td>0.546</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Shareable</td>
<td>0.981</td>
<td>0.033</td>
<td>2</td>
<td><u>8.470</u></td>
<td>0.014</td>
<td>*</td>
<td>0.983</td>
<td>0.063</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>1.712</td>
<td>0.184</td>
<td>0.977</td>
<td>0.013</td>
<td>2</td>
<td><u>4.701</u></td>
<td>0.095</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 5.1 LLM support increases content output without increasing effort but might diminish the feeling of ownership

In our study, participants who worked with the LLM assistant came up with significantly more ideas when creating memes compared to those participants working alone. Interestingly, even though they generated more ideas, they did not feel like the task was more demanding. The NASA-TLX results showed that the overall workload was not much different between the two groups, but participants in the LLM-assisted group did report that they had to put in less effort.

These results suggest that using the LLM can make the creative process of crafting humorous content more efficient by helping people generate more ideas without feeling overwhelmed. The AI assistant seemed to help them explore more options without putting in extra effort. This is consistent with previous studies, which suggest that AI tools can support users in generating more creative ideas by reducing obstacles associated with brainstorming and creative development[24, 31].

Additionally, participants who used the LLM reported a slightly reduced sense of ownership over their creations, indicating that AI assistance might affect the user’s connection to their work. However, participants generally still felt that they owned the idea. We attribute this finding to the fact that, in our online testing environment, AI assistance mainly contributed during the idea generation stage, whereas in the stages of idea screening and creating the meme image, no AI assistance or suggestions were provided. The final decision was always left up to the participants. Since feeling a sense of ownership and personal investment plays a significant role in creative motivation and satisfaction[5], it is essential to think about how we can balance the involvement of AI in the creative process.

## 5.2 The increased productivity of human-AI teams does not lead to better results - just to more results

The participants in our study developed more ideas in collaboration with the AI than when they worked alone. However, this did not translate into higher quality in the memes selected by our participants - which always happened without LLM support - in terms of the metrics we collected. This raises questions about the link between quantity and quality in human-AI collaboration. Although coming up with more ideas could increase the chances of producing something high-quality, our study did not find a significant difference.

In relation to our findings, several prior studies suggest similar outcomes in the context of human-AI co-creativity. For example, Wan et al. [49] found that participants who used an LLM during prewriting activities produced more creative ideas. However, these ideas were not significantly better in quality compared to those created by participants working alone. Similarly, Rezzwana and Maher[43]pointed out ethical and practical challenges in human-AI co-creativity. They noted that while AI can help generate more content, it does not always improve the depth or quality of the work because it struggles with understanding the context and subtleties of creativity. These studies align with our results, showing that while human-AI collaboration can increase productivity and the number of ideas, it does not always lead to higher-quality output.

From this, we conclude that the use of AI support in the context of the metrics investigated in this study does not lead to better results in terms of humour. Conversely, we can also assume that users with AI support achieve a consistent result faster and with more variations, without this representing an additional mental burden for the users.

## 5.3 LLMs appeal to a broad taste in humor, but humans can be wittier still

Over all assessed metrics, we found that memes created solely by AI performed better than memes created solely by humans or in collaboration between humans and AI. We attribute this initially
