Goel et al. (2024) proposed an approach combining template extraction and infilling using BERT (Devlin et al., 2019) with LLMs (specifically GPT-4, OpenAI, 2024 and Zephyr-7B, Tunstall et al., 2023) to generate set-up and punchline style jokes (e.g., "Why did the chicken cross the road? To get to the other side"). To achieve this, tokens from jokes are masked, and BERT attention weights are used to determine what elements of a given joke can be masked to maintain the essential structure, whilst removing overly topic-specific terms. As a result, the system learns to create joke structures that can then be filled to create novel joke instances.

On the other hand, Chung et al. (2024) present UNPIE, a benchmark to assess the understanding of Vision Language Models (VLMs) when reasoning about lexical incongruities. To achieve this, they take as input written puns and generate an image to serve as a visual representation of the pun, demonstrating that such visual clues may be beneficial in pun understanding tasks, helping to identify the location of a pun in a given text.

Horvitz et al. (2020) focus on the generation of satirical headlines, a type of language used that is both humorous and dry, being used to criticise individuals and entities on complex topics. In doing so, they tackle the linking of relevant real-world knowledge from sources such as Wikipedia and CNN, to relevant satirical headlines from TheOnion,[^8] which are then used to finetune GPT-2 (Radford et al., 2019).

Tian et al. (2021) explore humour through the lens of hyperbole with HYPOGEN. To do so, they curate a dataset of hyperbolic phrases following the "so [X] that [Y]" pattern (e.g., "My personality is so dry that a cactus flourishes inside"), using variants of CoMET models (Bosselut et al., 2019) to learn the commonsense and counterfactual relationships present in hyperbolic language to assist generation.

Finally, in recent years, there has been a growing body of work in the humour-adjacent domain of tongue twister generation (texts where entertainment and humour arise from mispronunciations stemming from complex phonetics). Such approaches involve training keyword-to-twister and style-transfer models for tongue twister generation, either via training on graphemes (Loakman et al., 2025a, 2023; Keh et al., 2023) or phonemes (Keh et al., 2023). Research in this domain has also highlighted the benefit of incorporating explicit phonetic and phonemic information into the generation of language formats that rely on such characteristics.

## 4 Humour Explanation

_"...if it can say why a joke’s funny, it really does understand"_ - Geoffrey Hinton.[^9]

The above quote from Hinton ("the Godfather of AI") refers directly to the use of joke explanation as a milestone achievement in the marketing of Google’s PaLM LLM (Chowdhery et al., 2023). Detection approaches, while offering objective and easily automatable evaluation, remain susceptible to statistical flukes. Explanation generation eliminates this vulnerability through a vanishingly low probability of accidentally producing coherent comedic analysis. Moreover, the act of explanation provides valuable insight into the inner workings of what still exists as nearly opaque black boxes. This value comes at the expense of significantly more challenging, expensive and labour-intensive evaluation methodologies.

In its present state, the field of humour explanation remains critically understudied. To provide necessary context, we draw upon select literature covering humour classification and detection.

### 4.1 Explanation through Classification

Humour explanation, although understudied, is not a completely isolated evaluation of comprehension. Whilst not encompassing the full scope of a natural language explanation, humour detection tasks models with identifying the linguistic traits common to humour. As such, we denote humour detection a precursor to explanation.

The majority of existing works on humour explanation do not focus on providing textual natural language explanations, instead focusing on other indications of a joke’s source, such as word senses or identifying the type of humour being expressed.

Miller et al. (2017) presents an overview of Task 7 from SemEval 2017, which concerned detection and "interpretation" (i.e., classification) of puns. Specifically, the pun interpretation task consisted of assigning word sense keys from WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) to the punning word contained in a text. One approach to the task, taken by Oele and Evang (2017), splits a given text into 2 parts at all possible locations, with the split where both parts have low semantic similarity being where the two meanings of the pun word are best separated. A Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) model is then used to retrieve the relevant senses. Similar techniques based on mapping and comparing the

[^8]: https://theonion.com/

[^9]: From the 16th June 2025 episode of The Diary of a CEO podcast. See https://youtu.be/giT0ytynSqg?si=00iN3DM2Fv58fp8o&t=4460.
