language forms that rely heavily on modalities that are absent from text (i.e., pronunciations), suggesting room for further performance gains alongside improvements in the fusion of modalities.

**Multimodal Humour and Meme Explanation** In the realm of multimodal humour, Hessel et al. (2023) present work on the explanation of visual jokes in the form of humorous captions from the New Yorker Cartoon Caption Contest. In such a task, models must understand the visual cartoon in order to disambiguate pun words or correctly establish the key incongruity, owing to the text alone being ambiguous. For instance, one cartoon presents a barbershop with a hole in the roof and a spring coming out of a barbershop chair, with the caption reading "He’ll be back". This phrase typically means that someone will return to an establishment even if they were dissatisfied (e.g., they provide an essential service or the individual’s criticism was unreasonable). However, in this instance, the visual cues reveal that "He’ll be back" is a literal statement, referring to the effects of gravity on the man who was ejected from his chair by a spring. To evaluate this, Hessel et al. (2023) finetune GPT-3 on human explanations, as well as perform 5-shot prompting with GPT-4. The results showed that access to visual information from the cartoons resulted in a better explanation in 84.7% of cases (via human preference judgements). However, whilst in-context learning with 5-shot GPT-4 outperforms finetuned GPT-3, it was shown that human-authored explanations are still preferred in 68% of instances.

On the other hand, the lion’s share of work in multimodal humour explanation specifically investigates memes, a type of media (typically an image) that is copied and propagated rapidly across the internet, often comprising text captions and related imagery (see Figure 2 for an example). Hwang and Shwartz (2023) present MEMECAP, a dataset tailored to meme understanding, consisting of 6.3K memes from the *r/Memes* subreddit alongside crowdsourced captions that explain the semantics that the meme is trying to convey. Additionally, Khan et al. (2024) present a dataset of 13K+ memes, including those with audio. In this instance, an LLM pipeline was utilised to generate explanations of the memes, which were then refined by human annotators. Interestingly, the authors aim to generate explanations that achieve the aim of entertaining and amusing readers (therefore being somewhat humorous themselves), rather than being strictly objective accounts of the humour.

[Figure: Kermit the Frog in a T-pose beside meme text reading “I hate getting all political but Wtf is C H E E S E”.]

Figure 2: An example of a meme, a form of multimodal humour that incorporates visual elements, often alongside text. In this instance, the humour arises from the absurdity of the belief that asking about cheese is political, whilst being enhanced by the confused T-pose Kermit the Frog render. The original meme has been edited to remove expletives.

Park et al. (2024) acknowledge that author’s intent contributes significantly to meaning, ergo perception. They define the task of *intent description generation*, accompanied by a dataset of 950 samples that are annotated with perceived intention and the necessary context. We believe that intent-aware systems are a compelling direction for future study, which we explore further in §5.4.

Furthermore, Agarwal et al. (2024) present MEMEMQA, a multimodal Q&A dataset for asking questions regarding the content of memes in order to better understand them. From this, they develop ARSENAL, a multimodal meme understanding pipeline that uses LLMs to reason about a given meme in relation to a specific question.

The site *Know Your Meme*[^11] tracks the provenance of memes as they develop, making it a wealth of knowledge regarding the origin and growth of memes over time. From this, Tommasini et al. (2023) built the Internet Meme Knowledge Graph, comprising 2 million edges to represent the semantics of multimodal memes.

In a more directly application-based setting, Jha et al. (2024) explore the explanation of memes being used explicitly for purposes of cyberbullying. Using the MultiBully dataset (Maity et al., 2022), they add annotations to highlight pertinent visual and linguistic aspects of a meme that highlight its intent as cyberbullying, allowing the training of enhanced bullying detection models.

[^11]: https://knowyourmeme.com/
