and relevant document retrieval), it would also aid in overcoming the undesirable effect of legitimising the instances where "*it’s just a joke!*" is used as a guise for spreading hatred through offensive material (Brommage, 2015; Hodson et al., 2010; Ford et al., 2015). Such approaches have extensive applications in online communication venues such as social media and in handling interpersonal conflict. Whilst individual preferences and beliefs as to what topics are possible to derive humour from remain highly subjective (Smuts, 2010; Gaut, 1998), improved modelling of the underlying intent would help identify instances where offence was likely caused accidentally.[^13]

[^13]: We of course do not advocate for the extreme version of such systems in practice, whereby individuals are effectively being accused of thought-crime due to an intent assigned to an author via a computational model.

## 6 Conclusion

In this paper, we have explored the current landscape in the domain of computational humour generation and explanation, outlining the approaches taken in existing work and outlining promising future directions. We propose that computational humour processing remains an unsolved task with a wide range of real-world applications, as well as being one of the most promising yet overlooked domains in which to evaluate the verbal reasoning abilities of modern LLMs. Furthermore, we identified and outlined a range of future approaches to be taken in generative computational humour research and made the case that future work should focus both on an increased breadth of humour formats, as well as giving explicit consideration to the ethics of computational humour.

## Limitations

We position this work as an overview of computational humour generation and explanation. As a result, we focus on the breadth of research available, rather than presenting in-depth accounts of the exact technical novelty of existing works. Additionally, whilst we aim to be comprehensive with our overview, some instances of relevant research may have been missed. Furthermore, we have not extensively explored other areas of computational humour processing, such as automatic metrics and human evaluation paradigms, available datasets, or approaches to humour detection.

## Ethics Statement

Relating to the ethical considerations explored in this paper, whilst we believe that humour generation and explanation are worthwhile pursuits, we acknowledge and appreciate the stances taken by other individuals. This relates specifically to ethical considerations surrounding the generation of creative language in any form, the generation of humour that is potentially offensive, and whether or not providing an explanation for potentially offensive humour equates to an endorsement of the content of such humour. Such decisions should continue to be a source of discussion in the NLP community as a whole, and we encourage individual researchers working in these domains to explicitly state their stance in published works.

## Acknowledgments

Tyler Loakman is supported by the Centre for Doctoral Training in Speech and Language Technologies (SLT) and their Applications funded by UK Research and Innovation [grant number EP/S023062/1].

## References

Gavin Abercrombie, Valerio Basile, Sara Tonelli, Verena Rieser, and Alexandra Uma, editors. 2022. *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Perspectivist Approaches to NLP @LREC2022*. European Language Resources Association, Marseille, France.

Siddhant Agarwal, Shivam Sharma, Preslav Nakov, and Tanmoy Chakraborty. 2024. MemeMQA: Multimodal question answering for memes via rationale-based inferencing. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024*, pages 5042–5078, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

D Akila and C Jayakumar. 2014. Semantic similarity- a review of approaches and metrics. *International Journal of Applied Engineering Research*, 9:27581–27600.

Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. 2020. A survey on approaches to computational humor generation. In *Proceedings of the 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, pages 29–41, Online. International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Aristotle. 1902. *Poetics*. Macmillan and Co., London. First composed c. 335 BCE.

Ashwin Baluja. 2025. Text is not all you need: Multimodal prompting helps LLMs understand humor. In *Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum)*, pages 9–17, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Scott Barnett, Stefanus Kurniawan, Srikanth Thudumu, Zach Brannelly, and Mohamed Abdelrazek. 2024. Seven failure points when engineering a retrieval augmented generation system.
