semantics of different partitions of the text with the pun word are shown in multiple submissions (e.g., Hurtado et al., 2017; Indurthi and Oota, 2017). Whilst assigning sense keys to a pun word offers a minor explanation to a user, the requirement for the pun word to be pre-identified nullifies the appropriateness of such systems in practice.

Palma Preciado et al. (2024) present an overview of the JOKER shared task from CLEF 2024, where Task 2 aimed to classify humorous texts based on their genre and the linguistic techniques used, including irony, sarcasm, exaggeration, incongruity/absurdity, self-deprecation and wit/surprise. In total, they received 54 submissions to the shared task, with techniques ranging from training BERT classifiers (e.g., Narayanan et al., 2024) and ensembles of classic machine learning classifiers (e.g., Bartulović and Váradi, 2024), to zero-shot prompting of LLMs like GPT-4 (e.g., Wu et al., 2024a ).[^10]

However, explanation through classification presents a series of issues. Firstly, and most obviously, whilst such approaches can demonstrate a model’s understanding of humour (to an extent), assigning the correct label to a given joke is unlikely to present a human user with valuable information that would aid their interpretation. Secondly, classification requires the creation of a taxonomy under which to categorise different jokes. Owing to the complexity of humour, high-quality, robust taxonomies are challenging to create. For instance, Task 2 from JOKER (Palma Preciado et al., 2024) has considerable overlap between joke categories. A prerequisite for both irony and sarcasm is the violation of a norm, whilst *incongruity* is presented as a separate category. This is additionally true of "wit" (a subjective judgement of cleverness and novelty) and *surprise*.

## 4.2 Natural Language Explanation

Whilst explanation through the lens of classification is a valid approach for simple joke formats such as puns, more complex humour formats, such as more esoteric, context-dependent jokes, benefit from natural language explanations (in addition to being more friendly to the proposed end-user). Natural language explanations rectify the coarseness of explanation through classification. Such approaches do not require a predefined taxonomy of humour types to identify, but instead test the overall abilities of models to provide tailored, specific explanations for every humorous text.

Xu et al. (2024) generates natural language explanations for puns using chain-of-thought prompting with a range of LLMs. They find that most LLMs are able to identify the punning word in both heterographic and homographic examples, but most models struggle with correctly identifying the alternative intended meaning of heterographic puns, which rely on phonetic similarity. The authors identify a series of mistakes commonly made by models, including failure to recognise the joke as a pun, incorrectly identifying the alternative senses of the pun word, and failing to provide the meanings of the pun word, but without contextualisation into a natural language explanation.

Lookman et al. (2025b) extend these findings and use a range of LLMs on a range of joke formats, including homographic puns, heterographic puns, long-form humour, and topical jokes from Reddit. Their results further confirm that LLMs struggle with heterographic puns (owing to their lack of phonetic knowledge), but additionally demonstrate that longer incongruity-based jokes and jokes that rely on esoteric topical knowledge present even more difficulty to LLMs. Whilst a zero-shot non-chain-of-thought approach is used, the authors find that the Llama models distilled from Deepseek R1, are among the worst-performing. They hypothesise that this is a result of the ambiguity in real-world references within topical humour, leading to early misunderstandings being propagated through the reasoning process. A further, smaller-scale evaluation of ChatGPT’s humour explanation ability is presented by Jentzsch and Kersting (2023). Similarly, Wang et al. (2025a) investigate the ability of LLMs to explain "drivelology", a linguistic form characterised as "nonsense with depth", incorporating humour alongside other elements such as sarcasm, irony, and tautologies. Whilst they investigate the ability for LLMs to correctly categorise the type of "drivel" being used, they additionally perform zero-shot explanation generation and likewise find that models struggle significantly with creating high-quality explanations.

Identifying the common failure of models to understand jokes where phonetic characteristics play a vital role (e.g., heterographic puns), Baluja (2025) investigate whether access to speech audio of the joke being read aloud leads to improved performance. They assessed the ability of Gemini 1.5 (Team, 2024) to explain jokes with and without access to text-to-speech readings, demonstrating approximately a 2.5% to 4% improvement in explanation performance. Whilst moderate, such findings indicate the affordances provided by multimodal prompting in

[^10]: See Palma Preciado et al. (2024) for a full overview of submissions.
