It is for these reasons that we assert the importance of humour understanding as a subdomain of NLP in the LLM age. The field of computational humour remains a fruitful area for continued work (Ignat et al., 2024; Lima Inácio and Gonçalo Oliveira, 2023); one that is critically overlooked and under-researched.

## 2.1 Theories of Humour

Humour, as a uniquely human experience, has been the focus of thinkers for centuries, becoming the subject of heavy debate. As such, several prominent theories have arisen that attempt to explain the perception of humour, a subset of which are presented below:

- **Relief Theory** suggests that humour, and particularly laughter, is the result of releasing psychological energy (Freud, 1963; Spencer, 1875; Kant, 1790).

- **Superiority Theory** posits that the experience of humour and comedy is born out of the perception that one individual is superior to another, thus making the inferior individual the subject of humour (Hobbes, 1660; Plato, 1892; Aristotle, 1902).

- **Incongruity Theory** states that humour is the perception of something that conflicts with established mental patterns and expectations, therefore being incongruous (Morreall, 2024; Tu et al., 2014).

- **Benign Violation Theory** postulates that humour arises from situations that are simultaneously harmless (i.e., benign) and are incongruous with expectations (i.e., violating a norm). (McGraw et al., 2012; McGraw and Warren, 2010)

Whilst the Superiority and Relief theories offer accounts of the experience of humour, they do not present simple interpretations that can be easily formulated linguistically and computationally. It is for this reason that, of the approaches to humour processing that are directly grounded in theory, incongruity and the general sense of norm violation remain essential elements (Tian et al., 2022; He et al., 2019; Valitutti et al., 2013). We present examples of textual linguistic humour in Figure 1 and an example of a multimodal humorous meme in Figure 2, to exemplify the broad range of possible humour forms.

# 3 Humour Generation

The ability to compose novel jokes requires an implicit understanding of the cognitive mechanisms that underlie humour. As outlined in the *Incongruity* and *Benign Violation* theories of humour, a necessary feature of humorous language is that it violates an expectation within the reader, either in the form of cultural or situational norms (e.g., topical and contextual humour), or linguistic norms (e.g., puns). This core property poses a challenge to computational approaches and to creative language generation more broadly: the language modelling objective aims to maximise the log likelihood of an output sequence, thereby working against the very incongruity that humour demands (Loakman et al., 2025a). The following subsections explore historical attempts to address or incorporate this contention for pun generation.

## 3.1 Pun Generation

Pun generation has dominated research, spanning from early rule-based approaches (Lessard, 1992) to contemporary neural methods. The historical prevalence of puns is largely a result of their computational tractability and theoretical grounding in Incongruity Theory, providing both an entry point and capacity to produce large quantities of training/evaluation data. Early works, such as JAPE (Binsted, 1996; Binsted and Ritchie, 1994) and STANDUP (Ritchie et al., 2007), leverage WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) for semantics and Unisyn[^7] for phonetic similarities. However, such classical approaches rely heavily on fixed schema, limiting overall creativity. For a deeper coverage of early literature in pun generation, we refer the reader to the prior surveys of Ritchie (2001) and Amin and Burghardt (2020).

The remainder of this section is split according to the distinction of *heterographic* and *homographic* puns (Redfern, 1987), including their combination. See Figure 1 for an example of each type.

### 3.1.1 Homographic Pun Generation

Homographic puns exploit polysemy, the phenomenon of multiple meanings existing for a single word, to create humour through semantic ambiguity. Early work in automatic pun generation focused on this category due to the accessibility of semantic resources like WordNet (Miller, 1994).

Yu et al. (2018) presents the first neural approach to homographic pun generation, training a conditional encoder-decoder LSTM on unlabelled Wikipedia text to create sentences that could support the semantics of two words simultaneously. This model then uses a constrained beam search algorithm to jointly decode

[^7]: https://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/unisyn/.
