John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. 2017. Proximal policy optimization algorithms.

Sergio Servantez, Joe Barrow, Kristian Hammond, and Rajiv Jain. 2024. Chain of logic: Rule-based reasoning with large language models. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024*, pages 2721–2733, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Henry Shevlin. 2024. All too human? identifying and mitigating ethical risks of social ai. *Law, Ethics & Technology*, 1(2).

Aaron Smuts. 2010. The ethics of humor: Can your sense of humor be wrong? *Ethical theory and moral practice*, 13(3):333–347.

Charlie Snell, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, and Aviral Kumar. 2024. Scaling LLM Test-Time Compute Optimally can be More Effective than Scaling Model Parameters.

Herbert Spencer. 1875. The physiology of laughter. In *Illustrations of universal progress: A series of discussions.*, pages 194–209. D Appleton & Company.

Nisan Stiennon, Long Ouyang, Jeff Wu, Daniel M. Ziegler, Ryan Lowe, Chelsea Voss, Alec Radford, Dario Amodei, and Paul Christiano. 2020. Learning to summarize from human feedback. In *Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems*, NIPS ’20, Red Hook, NY, USA. Curran Associates Inc.

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Shuyang Gao, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. Context-situated pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4635–4648, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Gemini Team. 2024. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across millions of tokens of context.

Yufei Tian, Divyanshu Sheth, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. A unified framework for pun generation with humor principles. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022*, pages 3253–3261, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yufei Tian, Arvind krishna Sridhar, and Nanyun Peng. 2021. HypoGen: Hyperbole generation with commonsense and counterfactual knowledge. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2021*, pages 1583–1593, Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Riccardo Tommasini, Filip Ilievski, and Thilini Wijesiriwardene. 2023. IMKG: The Internet Meme Knowledge Graph. In Catia Pesquita, Ernesto Jimenez-Ruiz, Jamie McCusker, Daniel Faria, Mauro Dragoni, Anastasia Dimou, Raphael Troncy, and Sven Hertling, editors, *The Semantic Web*, volume 13870, pages 354–371. Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham.

Joe Toplyn. 2023. Witscript 3: A hybrid ai system for improvising jokes in a conversation.

Paul Trichelair, Ali Emami, Adam Trischler, Kaheer Suleman, and Jackie Chi Kit Cheung. 2019. How reasonable are common-sense reasoning tasks: A case-study on the Winograd schema challenge and SWAG. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 3382–3387, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

S. Tu, X. Cao, X. Yun, K. Wang, G. Zhao, and J. Qiu. 2014. A new association evaluation stage in cartoon apprehension: Evidence from an erp study. *Journal of Behavioral and Brain Science*, 4:75–83.

Lewis Tunstall, Edward Beeching, Nathan Lambert, Nazneen Rajani, Kashif Rasul, Younes Belkada, Shengyi Huang, Leandro von Werra, Clémentine Fourrier, Nathan Habib, Nathan Sarrazin, Omar Sanseviero, Alexander M. Rush, and Thomas Wolf. 2023. Zephyr: Direct distillation of lm alignment.

Mathieu Valette. 2024. What does perspectivism mean? an ethical and methodological countercriticism. In *Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Perspectivist Approaches to NLP (NLPerspectives) @ LREC-COLING 2024*, pages 111–115, Torino, Italia. ELRA and ICCL.

Alessandro Valitutti, Hannu Toivonen, Antoine Doucet, and Jukka M. Toivanen. 2013. “let everything turn well in your wife”: Generation of adult humor using lexical constraints. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, pages 243–248, Sofia, Bulgaria. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Peiyi Wang, Lei Li, Zhihong Shao, Runxin Xu, Damai Dai, Yifei Li, Deli Chen, Yu Wu, and Zhifang Sui. 2024a. Math-shepherd: Verify and reinforce LLMs step-by-step without human annotations. In *Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 9426–9439, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yang Wang, Chenghao Xiao, Chia-Yi Hsiao, Zi Yan Chang, Chi-Li Chen, Tyler Loakman, and Chenghua Lin. 2025a. Drivel-ology: Challenging llms with interpreting nonsense with depth.

Zhexu Wang, Yiping Liu, Yejie Wang, Wenyang He, Bofei Gao, Muxi Diao, Yanxu Chen, Kelin Fu, Flood Sung, Zhilin Yang, Tianyu Liu, and Weiran Xu. 2025b. OJBench: A Competition Level Code Benchmark For Large Language Models.

Zihan Wang, Yunxuan Li, Yuexin Wu, Liangchen Luo, Le Hou, Hongkun Yu, and Jingbo Shang. 2024b. Multistep problem solving through a verifier: An empirical analysis on model-induced process supervision. In *Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024*, pages 7309–7319, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.
