## 5 Discussion & Future Directions

Generative tasks in the area of computational humour present a range of challenges owing to aspects such as the subjective and potentially offensive nature of humour and the ethics of generating any creative language form. In this section, we present a range of promising research directions for computational humour generation and explanation, relating each proposed direction to the practical and ethical challenges that they help ameliorate.

### 5.1 Demographic Aware Humour Generation

In following the recent trends established by works such as Sun et al. (2022) and Garimella et al. (2020), an essential primary focus of future research should be audience-tailored, demographic-aware, and contextually nuanced humour generation that is able to better address the preferences of particular end users. Owing to the wide gamut of topics that humour may be found in, such approaches would aid in decreasing the risk of generating material that is considered offensive to a given end-user. Consequently, a promising direction is to explicitly incorporate human preference alignment techniques such as RLHF (Ouyang et al., 2022; Stiennon et al., 2020; Christiano et al., 2017), DPO (Rafailov et al., 2023), and PPO (Schulman et al., 2017) to the task of humour generation.<sup>12</sup>

Additionally, the developing area of perspectivist approaches in NLP (Fleisig et al., 2024; Valette, 2024; Abercrombie et al., 2022) provide a route through which to consider individual preferences for subjective domains such as humour. Progress to this end is demonstrated by Casola et al. (2024) and Frenda et al. (2023), who present perspective-aware datasets for irony processing (a phenomenon highly related to humour). The types of humour and jokes that are most often required to be explained to someone are those that are ambiguous, nuanced, and frequently focused on sensitive topics. Whilst the potential sensitivity of a joke topic can have an intensifying impact on the level of humour perceived by the *intended* audience, it acts as part of a risk-to-reward tradeoff, likewise increasing the risk of offence if presented to the wrong audience (McGraw and Warren, 2010).

### 5.2 Human-in-the-Loop Humour Generation

Humour is a quintessential demonstration of human intelligence and creativity. As such, the development of computational models for the generation of such content poses the risk of increasing the anthropomorphism of machine learning models - something that is at times desirable, but also disproportionately impacts vulnerable users of these technologies (Shevlin, 2024). In addition to this, the creation of (intentional) humour is a creative endeavour. The generation of "*creative*" language forms with computational models has the potential to have severe negative impacts on the arts and creative industries as a whole, and reduce the outlets available to people to realise financial gains from their own creativity. Whilst systems such as Witscript (Toplyn, 2023) were developed by real-world comedy writers, such examples are the exception to the rule. As a result, future work should focus increasingly on human-in-the-loop approaches (Wu et al., 2022) to humour generation, requiring meaningful contributions from the end-user, or combining elements of humour generation and explanation to develop systems for joke workshopping, offering valuable feedback and direction on human-authored humour, rather than generating jokes wholesale.

### 5.3 Complex Humour Explanation

As highlighted in this survey paper, humour explanation is an interesting, challenging, and important task for assessing the verbal and commonsense reasoning abilities of models (particularly LLMs), yet is a scarcely researched domain. If the end goal is to imbue systems with human-level reasoning abilities, being able to explain humour is fundamental. Particular focus should be given to context-sensitive, esoteric humour such as topical jokes. Such jokes present a rich area for aiding in the development of advanced information retrieval systems that are able to work with ambiguous topics such as the references to world events and pop culture phenomena found in complex jokes.

### 5.4 Intent-Aware Humour Explanation

Whilst humour explanation is a challenging task with a real-world benefit of reducing communication barriers between people from different backgrounds, it is also an area with considerable ethical considerations. Another potential future direction for research in the area of humour explanation is the development of intent-aware models (Ma et al., 2025; Park et al., 2024). Such approaches would attempt to model the characteristics and intent of the author based on available information (such as prior language use and known/inferred demographic variables) prior to attempting to explain potentially humorous language use. Not only could this information aid in inferring references to ambiguous content (aiding reasoning

<sup>12</sup>See Jiang et al. (2024) for an overview of approaches to learning from human preference data.
