Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models.

Michael Wierzbicki and Richard David Young. 1978. The relation of intelligence and task difficulty to appreciation of humor. *The Journal of General Psychology*, 99(1):25–32.

Shih-Hung Wu, Yu-Feng Huang, and Tsz-Yeung Lau. 2024a. Humour classification by fine-tuning llms: Cyut at clef 2024 joker lab subtask humour classification according to genre and technique. In *CEUR Workshop Proceedings*, volume 3740 of *CEUR Workshop Proceedings*. Notebook for the CYUT Lab at CLEF 2024.

Xingjiao Wu, Luwei Xiao, Yixuan Sun, Junhang Zhang, Tianlong Ma, and Liang He. 2022. A survey of human-in-the-loop for machine learning. *Future Generation Computer Systems*, 135:364–381.

Zhaofeng Wu, Linlu Qiu, Alexis Ross, Ekin Akyürek, Boyuan Chen, Bailin Wang, Najoung Kim, Jacob Andreas, and Yoon Kim. 2024b. Reasoning or reciting? exploring the capabilities and limitations of language models through counterfactual tasks. In *Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 1819–1862, Mexico City, Mexico. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zhangchen Xu, Yang Liu, Yueqin Yin, Mingyuan Zhou, and Radha Poovendran. 2025. Kodcode: A diverse, challenging, and verifiable synthetic dataset for coding.

Zhijun Xu, Siyu Yuan, Lingjie Chen, and Deqing Yang. 2024. “a good pun is its own reword”: Can large language models understand puns? In *Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 11766–11782, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Thomas L. Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan. 2023. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large language models.

Zhangyue Yin, Qiushi Sun, Qipeng Guo, Zhiyuan Zeng, Xiaonan Li, Junqi Dai, Qinyuan Cheng, Xuanjing Huang, and Xipeng Qiu. 2024. Reasoning in flux: Enhancing large language models reasoning through uncertainty-aware adaptive guidance. In *Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 2401–2416, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zhiwei Yu, Jiwei Tan, and Xiaojun Wan. 2018. A neural approach to pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 1650–1660, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zhiwei Yu, Hongyu Zang, and Xiaojun Wan. 2020. Homophonic pun generation with lexically constrained rewriting. In *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*, pages 2870–2876, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Francisco Yus. 2013. *An inference-centered analysis of jokes: The Intersecting Circles Model of humorous communication*, pages 59–82.
