# Witscript 3: A Hybrid AI System for Improvising Jokes in a Conversation

**Joe Toplyn**  
Twenty Lane Media, LLC  
P. O. Box 51  
Rye, NY 10580 USA  
joetoplyn@twentylanemedia.com

## Abstract

Previous papers presented Witscript and Witscript 2, AI systems for improvising jokes in a conversation. Witscript generates jokes that rely on wordplay, whereas the jokes generated by Witscript 2 rely on common sense. This paper extends that earlier work by presenting Witscript 3, which generates joke candidates using three joke production mechanisms and then selects the best candidate to output. Like Witscript and Witscript 2, Witscript 3 is based on humor algorithms created by an expert comedy writer. Human evaluators judged Witscript 3's responses to input sentences to be jokes 44% of the time. This is evidence that Witscript 3 represents another step toward giving a chatbot a humanlike sense of humor.

## Introduction

Generating all types of humor is often regarded as an AI-complete problem (Winters 2021). But for a conversational agent like a social robot to be truly useful, it must be able to generate contextually integrated jokes about what's happening at the moment (Ritchie 2005). What's more, to be high-quality, a conversational agent must generate a variety of jokes using a variety of joke production mechanisms (Amin and Burghardt 2020). Witscript 3 is a novel system for automatically generating a diverse range of contextually integrated jokes using three different joke production mechanisms.

## Related Work

A few systems for the computational generation of verbally expressed humor can generate contextually integrated jokes, such as jokes improvised in a conversation. But those systems have notable limitations. Either they do not incorporate explicit humor algorithms (Zhang et al. 2020), or they only utilize one joke production mechanism (Dybala et al. 2008; Ritschel et al. 2019; Zhu 2019). In contrast, Witscript 3 generates conversational jokes using three joke production mechanisms, which are based on two explicit humor algorithms.

One of those humor algorithms, derived from the Surprise Theory of Laughter (Toplyn 2021), specifies that a monologue-type joke has these three parts: (a) the topic, (b) the angle, and (c) the punch line.

Witscript 3, like Witscript (Toplyn 2021) and Witscript 2 (Toplyn 2022), also incorporates the Basic Joke-Writing Algorithm (Toplyn 2021), which consists of five steps for writing a three-part joke:

1. **Select a topic.** A good joke topic is one sentence that is likely to capture the attention of the audience.
2. **Select two topic handles.** The topic handles are the two words or phrases in the topic that are the most attention-getting.
3. **Generate associations of the two topic handles.** An association is something that the audience is likely to think of when they think about a particular subject.
4. **Create a punch line.** The punch line is the word or phrase that results in a laugh. It links an association of one topic handle to an association of the other topic handle in a surprising way.
5. **Generate an angle between the topic and punch line.** The angle is a word sequence that connects the topic to the punch line in a natural-sounding way.

Now I'll describe how the Witscript 3 system employs those two humor algorithms to improvise jokes in a conversation.

## Description of the Witscript 3 System

Witscript 3 is a neural-symbolic hybrid AI system. It's symbolic because it incorporates the two humor algorithms described above. And it’s neural because it executes those algorithms by calling on a transformer-based, large language model (LLM), OpenAI's GPT-3 (Brown et al. 2020). The most capable GPT-3 model currently available, text-davinci-002, is used without fine-tuning. The model has 175 billion parameters and was trained on a filtered version of Common Crawl, English-language Wikipedia, and other high-quality datasets.

Like Witscript and Witscript 2, Witscript 3 uses the two humor algorithms described above to divide the task of improvising a joke into steps. The Witscript 2 and Witscript 3 systems carry out those steps by making a separate call to the LLM for each step and using the output of each step as
