an input to the next. In their paper, Wu, Terry, and Cai (2022) refer to this process as "prompt chaining," and observe that the step-by-step nature of the process results in a system that is more debuggable, editable, controllable, and explainable than an LLM-based system that accomplishes an entire task all at once.

More specifically, Witscript 3 employs GPT-3 to carry out the steps of the Basic Joke-Writing Algorithm in this way:

1. **Get a topic.** Witscript 3 receives a sentence from a user and treats it as the topic of a three-part joke that consists of a topic, an angle, and a punch line. For example, a user might say to Witscript 3, "Authorities caught two pigs that were wandering around loose in San Antonio, Texas."
2. **Select two topic handles.** The GPT-3 API is called with a prompt to select the two most conspicuous nouns, noun phrases, or named entities in the topic. That's because the humor of human-written jokes tends to be based on nouns and noun phrases (West and Horvitz 2019). From that example topic, GPT-3 selects the topic handles "pigs" and "San Antonio."
3. **Generate associations of the two topic handles.** The GPT-3 API is called with a prompt to generate a list of associations for each topic handle. In our example, for "pigs" GPT-3 generates a list including bacon, pork chops, ham, and sausage. For "San Antonio" it generates a list including The Alamo, River Walk, Texas Longhorns, and Whataburger.
4. **Create three punch line candidates.** Witscript 3 links associations of the topic handles in three different ways to create three punch line candidates: a wordplay candidate, a common-sense knowledge candidate, and a third candidate. To create its **wordplay candidate**, Witscript 3, like Witscript, uses well-known tools of natural language processing to combine one association from each list into a punch line that exhibits wordplay (Toplyn 2020). Witscript 3 does not call on GPT-3 to create its wordplay candidate because GPT-3 seems to be weak at phonetic tasks like generating puns and rhymes, possibly as a result of its use of byte-pair encoding (Branwen 2020). To create its **common-sense knowledge candidate**, Witscript 3, like Witscript 2, uses GPT-3 to combine one association from each list using common-sense knowledge. In our example, when the GPT-3 API is called, GPT-3 combines the associations "sausage" and "The Alamo" into the punch line "Alamo Sausage." Finally, to create its **third candidate**, Witscript 3 uses GPT-3 to power a third, proprietary, joke production mechanism involving the topic handles.
5. **Generate an angle between the topic and each candidate punch line.** The GPT-3 API is called with prompts to generate three joke candidates, each one based on the topic and ending with one of the punch line candidates.
6. **Output the joke candidate that is most likely the funniest.** The GPT-3 API is called with a prompt to determine which of the three joke candidates seems to be the funniest. Then Witscript 3 outputs that joke to the user as its response. In our example, after the user says, "Authorities caught two pigs that were wandering around loose in San Antonio, Texas," Witscript 3 outputs the response, "They were taken to the Alamo Sausage Company."

## System Evaluation

For inputs to evaluate Witscript 3, I used 13 sentences taken from Amazon's Topical-Chat dataset (Gopalakrishnan et al. 2019). The dataset consists of comments exchanged by pairs of workers on Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) who were asked to have coherent and engaging conversations based on topical reading material that they had been provided with. The dataset is available from `www.kaggle.com/datasets/arnavsharmaas/chatbot-dataset-topical-chat`.

I took the following steps to select and standardize sentences from the Topical-Chat dataset for use in evaluating Witscript 3:

1. Take a comment from the dataset at random.
2. Select the last (or only) complete sentence in that comment if it meets all of the following criteria: (a) its length is 20 words or less; (b) it has no pronouns whose antecedents are unclear; (c) it has at least two nouns, noun phrases, or named entities; and (d) it isn't basically the same as a sentence that has already been selected. Those are criteria that, in my judgment, a human would use when deciding whether a particular sentence in a conversation could be responded to with a joke relatively easily.
3. Repeat the first two steps until 13 sentences have been selected.
4. Standardize those 13 sentences by correcting any errors in capitalization, spelling, and punctuation.

Then I used each of those 13 sentences as an input to obtain responses from three different sources:

1. **Human**—This is the AMT worker whose response to that sentence was recorded in the Topical-Chat dataset. I took the entire response up until the AMT worker changed the subject. Then I corrected any errors in capitalization, spelling, and punctuation so that the Human responses would be comparable to the responses output by Witscript 3 and GPT-LOL, which contained no such errors.
2. **GPT-LOL**—This is a simple joke generator I created to serve as a baseline. It is the text-davinci-002 version of GPT-3 given the prompt "You want to be funny. Respond to this: [The sentence]." Temperature is set to 0.7 and Top P to 1.0.
3. **Witscript 3**—This is the system described above.

To evaluate the responses produced by the Human, GPT-LOL, and Witscript 3, I hired workers via AMT. I only specified that the AMT workers had to be located in the United States and have a Human Intelligence Task (HIT) Approval Rate greater than or equal to 95%.
