Gen Z. These particular narratives are likely inspired by the imagery of a disaster site, referring to how the effort of paying off student loans, attempting to complete group projects during school, or addressing relationship – all of which can feel like disaster clean up. These relatable conflicts can transform the visual of a demolition scene – a setting that is not particularly relatable – into a relatable scenario that has the potential for humor, thereby expanding the humorous possibilities by connecting the visual input with broader life experiences.

*3.1.4 Humorous Caption Generation.* Following the narrative and conflict extrapolation, the system generates humorous captions in the generation stage using a fine-tuned version of GPT-3.5 trained on humorous Instagram comments. This involves producing captions through two distinct strategies: one focused on the visual humor of the image, and the other by bringing in the previously generated external narratives. Caption generation is segmented into two separate prompts utilizing the fine-tuned GPT-3.5 model. For captions without generated external narratives, the prompt asks to generate 15 humorous captions in the style of Gen Z that bases the generation off the visual extraction and visual humor ideation of the input image. For captions with the external narratives, the prompt also asks to generate 15 humorous captions in the style of Gen Z that bases the generation off the visual extraction and visual humor ideation of the input image, but also asks the system to incorporate the list of generated narrative/conflict extrapolations to base the humorous captions off of.

Image-focused captions rely solely on the visual details in the image, such as “bro out here getting paid $8 an hour to spray some water on some bricks,” which references the direct visual elements in the scene in order to generate a caption. This particular caption directly references the humor of the image, poking fun at the minimal impact of the person spraying water on bricks while an excavator clearly has more impact on the demolition site. Narrative-driven captions, on the other hand, introduce external references to add humor. For instance, a caption like “The entitled bro you tried to make the group presentation with” introduces an outside, exaggerated, interpretation of the scene from earlier, "Group Project Disaster." This caption takes the group project narrative and pairs it with the visual of the image, analogizing the person spraying the hose with minimal impact on the demolition site to an entitled person who has not done much to complete the group project.

This variety between visual humor and narrative-driven humor is crucial because jokes that are too similar become predictable, losing their element of surprise. Additionally, humor strategies need to adapt to the varying content in input images. Some images lend themselves to humor based on their inherent visual details, while others require bringing in outside references to create a joke. For instance, an image of static objects might not be inherently funny, such as the demolition image shown in the system diagram, but a caption introducing an unrelated, exaggerated narrative, such as “Eboy doin’ his part to stop climate change” can inject humor and absurdity by making an unexpected connection.

*3.1.5 Caption Ranking using Gen Z Agent.* The final component of the system architecture is the Caption Ranking and Filtering Agent, a GPT-4o-based agent fine-tuned to evaluate humor from a Gen Z perspective. This agent receives the list of 30 total captions from the narrative and visual humor-based caption generations and ranks the captions generated in the previous stage based on humor, relatability, and alignment with the image and narrative.

As illustrated in our system diagram, this agent ranks captions such as “Me mopping up my last relationship” and “me pulling the emotional weight of the friend group” based on their relevance to Gen Z humor. Captions that fail to meet the humor threshold are filtered out, such as "Demolition worker really said 1v1 me bro," because although the phrase like "1v1 me bro" invokes Gen Z phrases, the content of the caption seems less relevant and relatable than a caption talking about school or relationships, ensuring that only the most effective and relatable captions are presented to the user.
