of things in the photo. Next is a divergent phase where AI generates multiple possible humorous angles. We have two strategies for this: one that poses humor strictly related to the image content and one that departs from the image content by bringing in relatable social conflicts that are analogous to it. Next, a generation phase where based on the angles, we generate 30 possible captions. As with most ideation, we favor quantity and diversity over quality. Lastly, a ranking phrase where a “Gen-Z humor expert” agent rates the generated captions and selects the 5 best to return.

We compare the HumorSkills generation method to two other sources of captions: 1) the five most upvoted comments on Instagram for the same image and 2) a state-of-the-art VLM (GPT-4o) with only prompt engineering. Through a humor rating survey of 20 images with 15 captions each, we found that HumorSkills is significantly funnier than the VLM baseline, and as funny as the top Instagram comments. HumorSkills captions were rated only 0.08 points lower on a 5-point scale with p=0.053, thus making HumorSkills not statistically less funny than the best human captions.

We end with a discussion of how imbuing generative AI with multiple human-like skills can enhance its ability to do complex human communication.

## 2 Related Work

### 2.1 Humor Theory

Humor is an intellectual challenge, humor has been studied by many great Western thinkers – Plato, Kant, Freud [23]. Many theories have been proposed about why we have a sense of humor and what we find funny, and many cite social phenomena as the root cause. Philosopher Daniel Dennett [15] theorizes that the reason humans evolved humor was so that we had a positive incentive (laughing) to learn from the mistakes of others, and even our own. This fits with the benign violation theory of humor [27] that says we find things funny when our expectations are violated in a way that is surprising, but not too threatening, disturbing, or wrong. This is why many jokes are insults that violate expectations about people’s physical and mental well-being (insults), breaking social or cultural norms (rude behavior), or linguistic norms (word play). These jokes also help us sense what is unexpected, and learn from it.

Humor also has structure. Jokes typically have a setup that establishes expectations and a punchline that violates them. The semantic script theory of humor [27] also describes how the setup leads listeners to infer one interpretation of the information, but the punchline leads them to infer a different interpretation that is also consistent with the facts (and the second interpretation of “script” often that violates a norm). Take this classic insult joke, *"There are three types of people in the world. People who can count and people who can’t."* The setup leads you to infer the person will list three types of people, but the punchline only lists two, which is unexpected. The second interpretation is that the person is bad at counting (insulting their own mental acuity). Constructing this joke required many cognitive skills beyond just knowing the setup-punchline structure - it required writing from someone’s (mistaken) point of view, constructing a logical error someone could make, and finding a bland set-up line to misdirect listeners’ attention to heighten the surprise. Beyond structure, it is unclear what is required of human or machine cognition to generate humor.

Although there is no definitive formula for humor, many humorists have described a set of techniques and skills for writing jokes. Key themes includes:

**Jokes should be relatable** [5, 8, 13, 18, 36], listeners have to related and empathize with them in some way. Jokes typically engage human emotions - fear, hope, curiosity, cringing, and other heightened states that raise the stakes that get us to listen and relate to the material [5]. Often jokes are for an in-group [15] - using the shared knowledge and experiences of a group to create exclusive material which only that group could relate to.
