due to budget constraints. Without the narrative generation, GPT-4o produces a relevant caption about the telescope, "he really said ’scope out the stars’," but it does not contain a narrative or core conflict to apply to the image.

The second image shows a group of medical professionals gathered around a laptop, seemingly discussing something serious. The caption, “Medical staff having a discussion on whether it’s worth it to save the uninsured man,” comments on the state of healthcare, particularly in countries like the United States, where lack of insurance can impact the quality of care. This caption utilizes narratives to insert a relatable critique of the healthcare system, framing the scene as if the doctors are debating the value of a human life based on their insurance status. The humor here comes from how HumorSkills can create an extreme suggestion using a narrative play on a real-world issue many can relate to the cost of healthcare. The GPT-4o caption, "When the surgery team gets a crash course in the break room," while addressing the humorous nature of expert surgeons receiving lessons while on break - suggesting the incompetency of the surgeons, does not establish a coherent narrative with a clear conflict like saving an uninsured man like in the HumorSkills example. Rather, the issue is that the images imply the surgeons are incompetent (who are all in the image) rather than another character (the man) with a conflict (he is uninsured).

The third image shows an abstract painting with a web of intersecting lines. The caption, "How your charger looks when you leave for 5 seconds," utilizes a narrative of getting up after using an electronic device such as a mobile phone or computer with a charger attached, only to come back to find it twisted and tangled. While there are no physical wires in the painting, HumorSkills generates a hypothetical narrative as if the lines are wires attached to a charger. The GPT-4o caption, "When you attempt abstract art and accidentally create a web of confusion," while also a narrative, pokes fun at the attempt of the actual painter trying to create abstract art only for it to be confusing. The HumorSkills caption is unique in that the narrative is separate from the actual image by generating a scenario of the painting representing someone’s charger wires for their devices. The GPT-4o narrative focuses on a narrative for the actual image itself and the identity of its painter.

### 5.4 Visual Detail Extraction and Visual Humor Ideation

In the first image, we see a man eating food with a large forehead. The caption, "Forehead so high, it’s getting its own zip code," refers to the abnormally large forehead of the man, that the height of the forehead is so far that it warrants its own area code. While GPT-4o most definitely can pick up on this visual abnormality, it often drifts towards non-significant visual details and fixates on them, as seen in the caption, "That moment when you’re caught off guard mid-snack, and now it’s awkward," fixing on the man-eating food while being photographed while chewing. GPT-4o definitely will pick up on the man’s forehead, but because it is not looking for visual oddities that may be considered funny (visual humor ideation) or prioritizing visual elements to the scene, it often reverts to a less prominent visual element.

In the second image, we see a man with a mustache sitting alone with a beer. The caption, “dude looks like he’s about to write a manifesto,” plays on the stereotype of a brooding, isolated man, on the verge of drafting some kind of extreme ideological statement like many extremist historical figures. This is an example of visual extraction, where the system uses the man’s appearance of the mustache, brooding imagery, longing face, and demeanor to label an assumption about the man’s political beliefs. The GPT-4o image caption, "That ’I came to the bar for solitude’ vibe" directly addresses the solitude nature of the man in the photo without addressing the brooding emotion of the man, the mustache, and other elements like in the HumorSkills caption that helps assume a political ideology or belief system.

In the third image, it is a painting of a Japanese woman in a kimono lying flat reading a book. HumorSkills generated, "bruh looks like they’re waiting for a text back from the shogun," highlighting that HumorSkills picks up the cultural
