accurate answers to math questions by talking through the steps. It is somewhat equivalent to the human technique of "showing one’s work". Similarly, thought experiments can better solve moral questions by thinking through the consequences of possible actions before making judgments [20]. Reflection [29] is a technique for AIs to evaluate their own outputs, and try to improve based on their own evaluation. Using AI to evaluate its own outputs, does not always produce good results, but it is commonly used [3]. Agents [24] can be useful to have AIs talk to one another to reason through a problem. Agents of different skills (or roles) can collaborate to do hard tasks that require multiple perspectives or roles like software engineering, and solving physics problems. A mixture of experts or perspectives can also be used to improve results [4].

In our system, we use fine-tuning to give the LLM a better sense of the target artifact. Implicit in this is the tone, the style, and the vocabulary expected in the humor. We use chains to separate stages of the humor generation process. We have an observation stage that makes implication information in images explicit, similar to the spirit of chain-of-thought and thought experiments. We also have an LLM as an evaluation of outputs - using a fine-tuned LLM trained to evaluate humor specifically for the target audience, somewhat like a mixture of experts model. There are several other AI paradigms that we did not explore here, but could be relevant to humor including: reflection planning, question asking, retrieval augments generation (RAG), and human reinforcement learning.

## 3 System

HumorSkills is a system that takes an input image and outputs 5 image captions. The architecture has three key steps that mimic human skills needed for humor. *Visual Detail Extraction,* is a step that describes the image in depth in order to make non-obvious observations about it. *Narrative and Conflict Extrapolation* is a step that finds narratives not in the image that could be related to it, to expand the topic of jokes to things that are not just in the image but also analogous to it. *Fine-tuning* the joke generator with examples of good Gen-Z humor helps the jokes be more relatable to the target audience by using references, slang, topics, and insecurities that resonate with this group.

The system generates two types of captions: image-focused captions which comment directly on the content in the image, and narrative-driven captions. Variety is important to humor. Humor relies on surprise, and jokes that are too similar start to become more predictable. Additionally, with an infinite set of input images with different subjects and situations, there are more strategies needed to find a humorous angle that fits the content.

### 3.1 AI Humor Generation Walk Through

Figure 1 contains a visual diagram and example of intermediate outputs when generating captions for an image. We describe each phase and implementation in detail.

*3.1.1 Visual Detail Extraction.* The first phase of the system’s workflow involves the Visual Detail Extraction component, which utilizes GPT-4o’s vision capabilities to analyze the input image. This system incorporates a prompt that asks for a detailed paragraph that explains the who/what/where of the image, distinguishing between identifying the subject of the image, the main action of the image if it exists, and the background elements of the image. This component is responsible for extracting key visual elements such as objects, human expressions, background settings, and any notable aspects that could serve as the foundation for humor.

For instance, in the demolition site example from the system diagram, the system identifies a large industrial demolition excavator and a person with a hose spraying the demolition site.
