automatically collect narratives and conflicts to be applied would accelerate this process. Adding new skills would also be future research. Theories of humor abound. With recent advances in LLM’s ability to do long chains of logical reasoning in DeepSeek and GPT-4o, it would be interesting to have AI try to analyze the humor and extract it’s own theories or techniques for humor.

One of biggest shortcomings of the captions is that some of them are not logical enough to make sense, but are also not illogical enough to be absurd. These sound like mistakes. As future work, one could test whether an AI-based reflection step could think through the logic of a joke and decide whether it actually made sense or not.

Further testing or ablation studies could help shed light on which skills are most helpful. However, humor ratings have high variance among raters, and the data required to get statistical significance is often quite high. There may not be an effect of each skill individually - they might only work together.

## 6.2 Implications of Machine with Human-like Social Skills

Human-like social skills - like humor - are often used for human bonding. If AI can write humor as well as the best people, the AI has the potential to both disingenuously create human bonding [10, 16] and to augment human’s ability to bond [30]. Either way, this has the potential to change the nature of human trust and communication. In many ways, this is already happening in other domains. ChatGPT and Gmail SmartCompose [7] can already rewrite emails to sound more polite than we really are. AI sales and scams can trick people into giving money to what they think are friend or loved ones in need [6]. AI has successfully been integrated into Gen Z dating apps that suggest messages to send to potential dates based on both a dating profile (for the opening line) or message history (for continued conversation) [21]. Many apps attempt this, but the quality of the suggested text sets them apart - the apps that generate more human-like texts have millions of active paying users [21]. To some, this potential for disingenuousness is horrifying. Although disingenuous portrayals of oneself for dating purposes far precede the invention of generative AI, there is a possibility that AI will amplify this ability.

As AI for social, cultural, and personally relevant communication improves, we may need a way to discern genuine from disingenuous communication. There are high-tech ways of doing this, such as making a video of oneself (until AI can do that). There are also low-tech ways of doing this, like talking in person. It would be highly ironic if the advancement of AI drives people to abandon technology, because it could not be trusted to be genuine.

# 7 Limitations

This study targeted only one form of humor for only one audience: Gen Z humor Instagram captions. This type of humor tends toward absurdities, which can be easier to generate than something that needs to be logically sound. Being illogically surprising is probably easier than being logical and surprising. Future work would have to test whether similar techniques work on other humor tastes. Some of our techniques, like fine-tuning, would likely work generically for all humor types, but other skills might need to be tried.

The caption humor is difficult, but it is more well-defined than other forms of humor. Caption humor only requires a punchline for a given image (the setup). Other forms of humor like standup comedy and popular humor magazines require generating both the setup and the punchline. A future direction is to explore what additional "skills" are needed to generate jokes with both setup and punchline.

The humor generated here is for a public audience, but most humor made spontaneously is made for friends, and often users insider knowledge about the friends, their background, and their shared experiences. LLMs would likely struggle to make in-joke humor without a source of inside information to train on.
