**3.1.6 _Fine-tuning._** To fine-tune a GPT-3.5 model, a dataset of 80 humorous comments were extracted from popular Instagram images. From three popular Instagram meme pages with over 400,000 followers, the top five comments of each image post were collected. All fit the style of Gen-Z humor. Examples of the visual description of the images in addition to an explanation of potential humorous elements of the image were written in the fine-tuning prompts, then followed by the actual comment itself. This reflected the visual extraction and humor ideation being incorporated into the prompt of our current system.

## 4 Humor Rating Study

### 4.1 Methods

We ask people to rate humorous captions humor for images taken from 8 popular Instagram (IG) humor captioning accounts. For each image, users were shown 15 captions 1) The top 5 most upvoted captions from IG 2) 5 captions from GPT-4o 3) 5 captions from HumorSkills.

Data was collected from an online survey. Users would see an image and then rate 15 captions for it on a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 was "not funny", 3 was "somewhat funny" and 5 was "very funny". For each user, the images were presented in a random order and the 15 captions for each image were also shown in a random order to avoid any possible ordering effects. Users were not told the condition of each caption.

The survey was distributed through email announcements to clubs and classes at a local university. Users were not told that AI was involved in the humor writing. The announcements advertised as being for people who identify as "Gen-Z" and who "like Instagram caption humor". These qualifications were added to ensure the raters were part of the target audience, and most university students fit this demographic. The survey took about 30 minutes and users were paid $10.

Our Hypotheses were that:  
H1) Our system would be rated as funnier than GPT-4o, but that  
H2) Our system would be rated as funny as the top-rated Instagram captions.

### 4.2 Results

In total, 32 people responded to the survey, 5 male, 9 female, and 18 declined to say their gender. 14 of 32 respondents were aged 18-25. 1 were aged "25+", and 17 declined to say their age group.

To test the relative humor score of the three conditions, we ran a Generalized Linear Mixed Model (GLMM) to estimate the funniness rating of each condition. The response types were ordinal numbers (ratings), the fixed effects were the caption type (IG, GPT-4o, System), and the random effects were individual rater IDs and image IDs.

**4.2.1 _H1: HumorSkills vs. GPT-4o._** On the whole, captions from our system were rated as 2.27 (out of 5) for funniness. Captions written by GPT-4o were rated less funny (by 0.213 points), which is statistically significant at a p<0.0001 level. This indicates our system writes more humorous captions than a state-of-the-art VLM with prompt engineering. Results are shown in figure 1. Thus **H1 is supported. Our system is funnier than GPT-4o.**

**4.2.2 _H2: HumorSkills vs. top IG captions._** On the whole, the top IG captions were rated only slightly better (0.08 points on a 5-point scale). But the difference was not significantly different at the 5% level. However, it was very close (p=0.053) This indicates that the system is competitive with the top IG captions. This effect could disappear with more data, but this dataset had over 6000 observations, and the 0.08 difference in average score is only 2% of the 1-5 scale. Thus **H2 is**
