**Jokes have details and observations.** Observing the difficulties and absurdities of life is a good way to find relatable material [18]. But obvious absurdities tend not to be surprising, so jokes often come from observing details that others likely missed. [5, 36].

**Jokes contain narratives that include a point of view.** [5] Like stories and narratives, jokes often use multiple points of view to see a situation in a new and surprising way. Understanding peoples’ thoughts, actions, and behaviors helps fully “act out” [5] the story. For example, *"Question: How do you get an Amish person to change a lightbulb? Answer: What’s a lightbulb?"* this takes the Amish person’s point of view in the answer, which is unexpected, the information is more immediate when it is told from the point of view of the person directly affected. Sometimes that story can be based on a metaphor that helps the listener see something in a new way: *"Playing an unamplified guitar is like strumming on a picnic table"* (Dave Barry) [23]. Finding a good narrative, or point of view for a situation can help show the humor in it.

**Jokes are creative and can be intentionally constructed** Almost all humorists who write books about humor echo the design literature that divergent and convergent thinking are helpful processes in writing humor. Exploration is necessary to expand topics [13] and many alternatives for punchlines should be explored to find the one that resonates the most [9].

Overall, jokes require complex human and social understanding. This is probably why humor difficult for machines to produce.

## 2.2 Computational Creativity and Humor

Computational humor is an outstanding challenge in AI. Even classifying whether or not something is funny is a computational challenge. This has been tried with some limited success by training deep learning classifiers on New Yorker Captions [28], and by "unfunning" jokes to create more training data [14]. Wordplay is a common target for computational humor generation, and it relies on linguistic violations rather than social or cultural ones. Thus many successful systems have produced computational word play [2, 12, 19, 31, 35], but these techniques don’t extend to broader types of humor. Generating humor without wordplay is harder.

LLMs have opened this as a possibility but humor continues to be a challenge for LLMs like ChatGPT [17, 22], even with fine tuning [1]. Recently, ChatGPT has been shown to be funnier than jokes written by Turkers (as rated by other Turkers), but not nearly as funny as professionally published humor [11].

A common technique for non-wordplay humor is finding and relating unexpected associations [33], using multiple humor strategies for associations [34]. Adding multi-step reasoning can also be applied [32], but is not sufficient. These attempts are largely in the right direction. Using associations, reasoning, and creative processes like divergent and convergent thinking made sense. But there are many more dimensions to humor. Considering more human-centric ideas like point of view, observation of details, social understanding, and understanding the audience is also essential for humor generation.

## 2.3 AI Generation Techniques

Prompt engineering is the most general AI generation technique [25]. Crafting prompts that clearly define the problem and the expected output is the first technique to try to generate better outputs. However, when prompt engineering is insufficient there are many other generation paradigms that have been shown to achieve better results. Fine-tuning allows the model to learn the specific patterns of a target output type. This can help learn writing style, topics, and other implicit aspects of language. Results from a model can be chained together to solve a bigger problem [38], allowing the model to focus on solving one problem at a time. Chain of thought [37] is a technique that helps models get more
