instantly brings to mind the iconic visuals and rebellious energy of the game, enhancing the humor through a shared cultural reference and common phrase popular among Gen Z. On the other hand, the GPT-4o caption, "This dog is clearly in charge of the neighborhood," while relevant to the dog and urban environment, does not contain a cultural or popular phrase among Gen Z like GTA.

In the museum art dataset, for more abstract images, such as the third image with bold, chaotic strokes and splashes of color scattered across the canvas, the caption, “adhd be like,” uses the chaotic and unfocused nature of the painting as a metaphor for adhd. This humor also resonates with Gen Z, who are more comfortable discussing mental health and will throw around the term "adhd" more. The abstract painting lends itself to this caption, as it reflects the disordered, busy, and scattered hardship associated with the condition that Gen Z mentions a lot. The GPT-4o caption, "Me after two cups of coffee and no plan for the day," also addresses a similar condition of feeling chaotic after drinking coffee, but does not invoke a relatable condition relating to mental health like "adhd" that is popular among Gen Z.

[Figure: Three side-by-side images: a telescope mounted on a rifle; medical staff gathered around a laptop; an abstract painting with intersecting lines. Below the images is a table comparing Humor Skills and GPT-4o captions and scores.]

|  | Caption | Score | Caption | Score | Caption | Score |
|---|---|---:|---|---:|---|---:|
| **Humor Skills** | That’s one way to deal with the **Space Force** budget cuts. | **2.65** | Medical staff having a discussion on whether it's **worth it to save the uninsured man.** | **2.76** | How your **charger** looks when you leave for 5 seconds. | **2.76** |
| **GPT-4o** | he really said “scope out the stars” | **1.88** | When the surgery team gets a crash course in the break room | **2.53** | When you attempt abstract art and accidentally create a web of confusion | **1.64** |

Fig. 5. Images across all 3 datasets with narrative generation. Instagram (left), Flickr (center), Museum Art (right)

### 5.3 Using Narrative Extrapolation for Relatability

While humor generation with Gen Z slang seems natural on images HumorSkills was built for and trained on, HumorSkills can generate narratives for images where it is not obvious there is Gen Z slang available to produce into a humorous caption.

The first image from Instagram shows a comically large telescope on top of a rifle as if it were a sniper scope. With no apparent narrative for the image, HumorSkills generates one by assuming the event in which the US Space Force has faced budget cuts with the caption, "That’s one way to deal with the Space Force budget cuts," implying that the telescope, used in space, and the rifle, used by the military, has been jury-rigged together for use by the US Space Force
