Table 1. Mixed Linear Model Regression Results

|  |  |  |  |
|---|---:|---|---:|
| Model: | MixedLM | Dependent Variable: | rating |
| No. Observations: | 6015 | Method: | REML |
| No. Groups: | 402 | Scale: | 1.6212 |
| Min. group size: | 2 | Log-Likelihood: | -10271.0088 |
| Max. group size: | 15 | Converged: | Yes |
| Mean group size: | 15.0 |  |  |

|  | Coef. | Std.Err. | z | P> \|z\| | [0.025 | 0.975] |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Intercept (HumorSkill rating) | 2.273 | 0.040 | 56.601 | 0.000 | 2.194 | 2.351 |
| GPT-4o rating | -0.213 | 0.040 | -5.285 | 0.000 | -0.291 | -0.134 |
| Top5 IG rating | 0.078 | 0.040 | 1.934 | 0.053 | -0.001 | 0.157 |
| Group Var | 0.323 | 0.025 |  |  |  |  |

**supported. Based on our sample, our system was rated as funny as the top 5 Instagram comments.** Or more precisely, our system was not statistically less funny than the top IG captions.

### 4.3 HumorSkills performance on non-target images

The HumorSkills approach was designed and fine-tuned on a particular type of humor - Instagram captioning. It is possible that this approach is not generalizable, and too well tailored to one domain. The Instagram Caption Challenge is selected by the posters for particular qualities, which aren’t stated, but a consistent theme is that the images are already interesting and unusual. They almost always include people interacting. However, other types of images could be harder to caption humorously. We test two other sources of images to see how well HumorSkills could caption those images compared to GPT-4o.

1. **Camera roll images** – the everyday photos people take – typically contain people, but the images are not necessarily interesting in their subject or composition.

2. **Museum Art.** Art is very different than photos. Although some of it depicts people doing things. Most of those things are historical, and not particularly relatable. Some paintings are abstract, like Jackson Pollock’s, do not concretely depict any discernible subject. Additionally, many of the art pieces are not paintings but objects like vases or chairs. Any image without people are challenging to make relatable and create a narrative for.

We randomly selected 30 images from the Flickr Image Dataset[39] and 30 museum art images to test on our target audience. We take 15 images from the Museum of Modern Art (The MoMA) and 15 images of art from from the Metropolitan Art Museum (The Met). For every image, we generate 5 HumorSkills captions and 5 GPT-4o captions. We create two separate surveys for rating the captions - one for art and only for camera roll images. As before, we randomize the order of the images and the captions to mitigate ordering effects. We recruited raters the same as for the previous study.

We hypothesize that HumorSkills’ captions will be rated more funny than GPT-4o captions. We did not compare to top-ranked human-written captions because these images were not taken from Instagram.
