# Text Is Not All You Need: Multimodal Prompting Helps LLMs Understand Humor

**Ashwin Baluja**  
Northwestern University  
baluja@u.northwestern.edu

## Abstract

While Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive natural language understanding capabilities across various text-based tasks, understanding humor has remained a persistent challenge. Humor is frequently multimodal, relying on phonetic ambiguity, rhythm and timing to convey meaning. In this study, we explore a simple multimodal prompting approach to humor understanding and explanation. We present an LLM with both the text and the spoken form of a joke, generated using an off-the-shelf text-to-speech (TTS) system. Using multimodal cues improves the explanations of humor compared to textual prompts across all tested datasets.

## 1 Introduction

Despite remarkable advances in Natural Language Processing, particularly with Large Language Models (LLMs), the computational understanding of humor remains an elusive goal. Humor operates on multiple levels simultaneously, drawing on cultural context, current events, common sense, phonetic nuances, and rhythm to evoke a comedic response (Bucaria, 2004; Attardo and Pickering, 2011; Warren et al., 2021). Recent studies have focused on analyzing the performance of large language models for understanding cultural norms (Hendrycks et al., 2021a,b), knowledge of current events (White et al., 2024), and common sense reasoning (Zellers et al., 2019; Shao et al., 2024). Yet, the unique challenge posed by computational humor, requiring a combination of all these tasks and information often conveyed through audio, has received comparatively little attention.

A fundamental aspect of verbal humor, particularly evident in puns, lies in linguistic ambiguity. Puns rely on homographs (words that are spelled identically with different meanings) and heterographs (words that are spelled differently but pronounced the same) (Miller et al., 2017). Traditional text-based LLMs, constrained by their token-based processing architecture, struggle to capture these subtle linguistic features that yield essential clues into understanding a joke’s underlying mechanics.

Our approach builds on prior research into humor understanding abilities present in LLMs (Xu et al., 2024) and demonstrates significant improvements over baseline textual prompting strategies for humor explanation. Our analysis examines both macro-level performance across humor datasets and micro-level effects through investigation of the model’s internal representations and effects of text-to-speech (TTS) parameters.

## 2 Related Work

**LLM-based humor classification.** In (Wu et al., 2024), pre-trained language models, from early BERT-like models to modern LLMs like LLaMa-3, were fine-tuned or prompted using Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and few-shot strategies for humor classification. Similarly, in (Xu et al., 2024), CoT and few-shot example prompting were used for punchline detection and humor explanation. In both, humor specific examples for fine-tuning proved beneficial for humor understanding.

**Fused multimodality features.** Most directly related to our work, several studies have developed multimodal features for humor detection (Hasan et al., 2021; Aggarwal et al., 2023). Each has improved the performance of their task by incorporating non-text information into a fused representation, validating the importance of other multiple modalities. In contrast to our approach, these studies were conducted using BERT-like models and required training from scratch. We propose a simpler approach that does not require training and is fully compatible with pre-trained LLMs.

**Training on paired modality datasets.** In domains outside of humor, copious research has been conducted using datasets with multiple representa-
