[Figure: Rounded rectangle prompt template with readable text: “Definition of a pun”; “Instructions”; “detect whether pun or non-pun,”; “describe why,”; “don’t address modality”; “Examples”; “joke text, joke detection, reasoning”; “… x 6”; “==============================”; “Input joke”; “Input audio”.]

Figure 2: Multimodal prompting strategy where the LLM has both audio and text passed in at once.

More details are provided in the ablation section.

## 4 Experimental Setup

### 4.1 Datasets

We evaluate our multimodal prompting approach using three datasets.  
**SemEval 2017 Task 7:** This set contains 810 & 647 puns (homographic & heterographic), and 1077 non-puns. It contains <u>human annotations</u>: noting the pun-word and the spelling or definition of the pun-word in both interpretations of the pun. Additionally, this set contains <u>human explanations</u>: each pun has a human-provided, sentence-form explanation (Miller et al., 2017).  
**Context-Situated Puns:** This dataset consists of 821 & 1739 puns (homographic & heterographic) with <u>human annotations</u> (Sun et al., 2022). It has the same pun-word and spelling/definition annotations as SemEval. It does not contain <u>human explanations</u>.  
**ExplainTheJoke:** This broad collection of jokes was scraped from the `ExplainTheJoke.com` web-site, containing 350 jokes. This dataset does not have <u>human annotations</u>. Instead, each entry has human explanations in paragraph-form, which themselves have high variability in style, length, quality and accuracy (theblackcat102).

### 4.2 Models

For generating explanations, we utilized Gemini-1.5-Flash (Gemini Team, 2024). At the time of the study, only the Gemini family of models offered API-based audio input, and Gemini-1.5-Flash offered the best balance between performance and affordability. This allowed us to effectively leverage the multimodal prompts central to our study, ensuring that the model could process auditory cues alongside textual data.

To avoid human biases in evaluating the quality of the generated free-form text explanations, a separate LLM was used. Recently, using LLMs as judges have been assessed favorably (Zheng et al., 2024). Further, the presence of structured annotations for both pun datasets gave the judge ground-truth, so that it did not rely on its own understanding of the joke; details are provided in the next section.

We chose GPT-4o (OpenAI, 2024) as the judge. We did not use Gemini-1.5-Flash or Gemini-1.5-Pro to avoid potential biases from using the same model family for generation and evaluation. Additionally, at the time of our research, GPT-4o was the strongest available model (Chiang et al., 2024).[^1]

## 5 Results

We present our results on the three datasets. Interestingly, there is a wide disparity in the *understanding* and *detection* of humor using LLMs. While previous studies have shown close to saturated results in the simpler problem of *detecting* the presence humor (Xu et al., 2024), an LLMs explanation of the humor is often incorrect. Our results demonstrate the improvements in *understanding* that are possible with multimodal inputs.

### 5.1 SemEval

To evaluate our system, Gemini-1.5-Flash’s generated explanation for each pun was paired with the human-provided explanations from the dataset. The judge, GPT-4o, was then asked to output whether explanation 1 was better than explanation 2, explanation 2 was better than explanation 1, or whether both explanations were of equal quality. The full judging prompt is included in Appendix A.1.2. This process was repeated twice - once for baseline textual prompting, and once for multimodal prompting, where the LLM was provided with both the text and audio. The judge was provided with the annotations each time, ensuring that the judgement considered the ground truth meaning. Win rate is reported as percent of times the model’s explanation was preferred over the human’s.

Table 1 shows that incorporating audio significantly improves performance over baseline across

[^1]: The final score was based on pairwise comparisons of each test sample. However, LLM-as-a-judge has been found to have strong positional bias, *a priori* preferring the first element in each pair. To account for this, we run pairwise comparison twice, swapping the order of each pair. Final win rates are determined by averaging swapped and un-swapped win rates (Zheng et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2024).
