Minghao Shao, Abdul Basit, Ramesh Karri, and Muhammad Shafique. 2024. Survey of different large language model architectures: Trends, benchmarks, and challenges. *IEEE Access*, pages 1–1.

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Shuyang Gao, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. Context-situated pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4635–4648, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

theblackcat102. Theblackcat102/joke_explaination - datasets at hugging face.

Peiyi Wang, Lei Li, Liang Chen, Zefan Cai, Dawei Zhu, Binghuai Lin, Yunbo Cao, Lingpeng Kong, Qi Liu, Tianyu Liu, and Zhifang Sui. 2024. Large language models are not fair evaluators. In *Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 9440–9450, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Caleb Warren, Adam Barsky, and A. Peter McGraw. 2021. What makes things funny? an integrative review of the antecedents of laughter and amusement. *Personality and Social Psychology Review*, 25(1):41–65. PMID: 33342368.

Colin White, Samuel Dooley, Manley Roberts, Arka Pal, Ben Feuer, Siddhartha Jain, Ravid Shwartz-Ziv, Neel Jain, Khalid Saifullah, Siddartha Naidu, Chinmay Hegde, Yann LeCun, Tom Goldstein, Willie Neiswanger, and Micah Goldblum. 2024. Livebench: A challenging, contamination-free llm benchmark. *Preprint*, arXiv:2406.19314.

Shih-Hung Wu, Yu-Feng Huang, and Tsz-Yeung Lau. 2024. Humour classification by fine-tuning llms: Cyut at clef 2024 joker lab subtask humour classification according to genre and technique. In *Working Notes of the Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum (CLEF 2024). CEUR Workshop Proceedings*, pages 1933–1947.

Zhijun Xu, Siyu Yuan, Lingjie Chen, and Deqing Yang. 2024. "a good pun is its own reward": Can large language models understand puns? *Preprint*, arXiv:2404.13599.

Rowan Zellers, Ari Holtzman, Yonatan Bisk, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi. 2019. Hellaswag: Can a machine really finish your sentence? In *Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*.

Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric P. Xing, Hao Zhang, Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2024. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena. In *Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems*, NIPS ’23, Red Hook, NY, USA. Curran Associates Inc.

# A Appendix

## A.1 Prompts

These prompts are based on those used in (Xu et al., 2024), modified for use with multimodal prompting

### A.1.1 Explanation

The prompts used for generating explanations are shown in Figure 5.

### A.1.2 Judging

The prompts used for judging are shown in Figure 6.

## A.2 Phonetic Ambiguity

In order to test whether phonetic ambiguity is preserved by including an audio version of the joke, we directly analyze the logits of a transcription task. Following the same pattern as in the joke explanation task, we convert the text to audio using OpenAI’s tts-1-hd model. As publicly available LLM APIs do not provide logit outputs, we use (Hua, 2024), an open-source model available on Hugging Face.

As a simplified task, we converted the word, "Where," to audio, and asked the LLM to transcribe the file. If phonetic ambiguity is preserved, the model would output homophones for "where" as highly probable alternatives. As shown in A.2, this is the case: "wear," "ware," "here," and "there," are all present in the top ten highest probabilities.

[Figure: bar chart titled `Logits of "Where"` with y-axis `Logits` and x-axis `Words`; visible x-axis labels include `Where`, `where`, `We`, `W`, `wear`, `ware`, `were`, `Here`, `There`.]

Figure 3: Logits of transcribing an audio file containing the word, "Where".

Further, we test the logits in a realistic pun scenario. We tested on the pun, "Patience is a heavy weight," where the pun-word is "weight," and the alternate spelling is "wait." As shown in A.2, "weight" and "wait" are the top two tokens with the highest probability.
