|  | Heterograph |  | Homograph |  |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
|  | Win % | Tie % | Win % | Tie % |
| Baseline | 47.76 | 5.64 | 68.89 | 8.40 |
| **with audio** | **51.74** | 4.56 | **72.59** | 6.36 |

Table 1: Results for SemEval comparing baseline and multimodal prompting vs. human explanations.

both homographs and heterographs. Performance increased in both by approximately 4%.

## 5.2 Context-Situated Puns

Unlike the previous dataset, with no human explanations available, we cannot compare each LLM output to a human baseline. Instead, we compare the LLM outputs (created with and without audio input) directly with each other. To ensure that the judge-LLM is given the correct context, the annotations that were provided in the dataset are also given as input. Here, win-rate is reported as the percent of times the result of one prompting strategy was preferred over the other.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th colspan="2">Heterograph</th>
<th colspan="2">Homograph</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Win %</th>
<th>Tie %</th>
<th>Win %</th>
<th>Tie %</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Baseline</td>
<td>33.87</td>
<td rowspan="2">29.65</td>
<td>35.08</td>
<td rowspan="2">28.08</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>with audio</strong></td>
<td><strong>36.49</strong></td>
<td><strong>36.85</strong></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 2: Results for Context-Situated Puns dataset comparing baseline vs multimodal prompting.

As shown in Table 2, the addition of audio cues again provided improvements in both homographic and heterographic cases.

## 5.3 ExplainTheJoke

Here, we evaluated the model’s ability to generate detailed joke explanations in domains outside of puns. As this dataset lacked detailed annotations and only included inconsistent-quality explanations, we attempted to generate a more normalized explanation by first asking GPT to summarize the provided human explanations. This summary was then used as the relevant context to the judge-LLM. The remainder of the evaluation proceeded in the same manner as the Context-Situated Puns; we performed pairwise comparison directly between the results of baseline and multimodal prompting.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Win %</th>
<th>Tie %</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Baseline</td>
<td>12.81</td>
<td rowspan="2">71.75</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>with audio</strong></td>
<td><strong>15.44</strong></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 3: Results for ExplainTheJoke dataset comparing baseline vs multimodal prompting.

Table 3 reveals that even with jokes that are not puns, using the multi-modal prompting improves performance. While phonetic ambiguity likely explains many of the performance gains for the previously studied datasets, these results suggest that other more nuanced effects are successfully conveyed by including audio.

## 5.4 Analysis

We conducted three key analyses to assess the proposed multimodal prompting. First, in an ablation study, we tested various details of multimodal prompting, finding that pure audio-only prompting performs far worse than pure textual prompting (Appendix A.3). Second, we analyzed whether incorporating audio genuinely preserved phonetic ambiguity. Through a detailed examination of the logits of an LLM transcribing puns, we observed that the model assigned significant probability to both potential spellings of the pun-word (*e.g.,* “weight” vs. “wait”), indicating that the phonetic cues *were* captured in its internal representations (Appendix A.2). Lastly, we explored sensitivity to voice parameters but found no significant evidence that variations in voice type systematically affected results (Appendix A.4).

# 6 Conclusion and Future Work

In this study, we demonstrated that incorporating auditory cues into multimodal prompts significantly improves Large Language Models’ ability to understand and explain humor, particularly in cases involving phonetic ambiguity. Our approach, leveraging readily available APIs and open-source models, offers a straightforward yet effective enhancement to existing LLM capabilities.

There are several avenues for extending this research. A deeper study into the effects of voice characteristics on humor interpretation could reveal how tone, pitch, or speaker identity affects comedic understanding. Although our TTS-based approach was effective, it did not capture nuances like timing and rhythm; similarly, integrating video input could convey facial expressions and other cues essential for humor. Finally, expanding our approach to include different forms of humor and other domains where multimodal inputs play a crucial role will further broaden the capabilities of LLMs in understanding the subtleties of user queries.
