| Input Pun | Generated Explanation |
|---|---|
| My name is <u>Cary</u>. I’m a porter. | The joke is a pun on the word “cary”. A porter is someone who transports goods. |
| Fishers often <u>wet</u> their appetite. | This is a play on words. The word “wet” means to wet your appetite, which is a characteristic of fish. |
| A gossip is someone with a great sense of <u>rumor</u>. | This is a play on words. The word “rumor” sounds like “rumor”. A gossip is someone who has a great sense of rumor. |
| Oil executives are always using <u>crude</u> language. | The joke is a pun on the word “crude”. Crude language is used to describe crude oil, which is a type of petroleum product. |
| Please mix me a martini, said Tom, <u>dryly</u>. | This is a play on words. The word “dryly” means dryly, but “dryly” sounds like “dryly”. |

Table 6: Pun explanations generated by the T5 model. We use <u>underline</u> to indicate the pun word in the input.

produces novel puns as output. This benchmarks models’ capability to draw connections among words to generate novel fluent, sensible, and humorous texts. This is a challenging task with many downstream applications, such as context-situated humor generation, a task that involves generating humorous text in a given situation or context. In this case, input keywords can come from conversational context (e.g., chatbot dialogues) or narrative context (e.g., creative short stories).

More formally, we take as input keywords $K$, the pun word $p_w$ and alternate pun word $a_w$, ^11 and produce novel and fluent puns that incorporate the keywords. ^12 Optionally, we also include pun word sense annotations $S_{p_w}$ and $S_{a_w}$ from the original SemEval 2017 Task 7 annotations.

**Data Preparation.** For this task, we limit our data to samples that contain both (1) annotated human keywords $K$ from ExPUN ($AF_6$), and (2) pun word sense annotations $S_{p_w}$ and $S_{a_w}$ from SemEval 2017 Task 7. There are 1,482 such samples that have both annotations, from which we reserve 100 as test data and use the rest for model training. To construct input human-annotated keywords for this task, we aggregate keywords for each sample using the method described in Section 2.4. Additionally, we evaluate the effect of finetuning on automatically-extracted keywords instead of human-annotated keywords by automatically extracting keywords for each sample by running the RAKE (Rose et al., 2010) algorithm on the pun text.

**Evaluation Metrics.** We use both automatic metrics and human evaluation to evaluate the quality of generated puns. For automatic evaluation, we calculate word incorporation rate for both pun words and keywords, which measure the model’s ability to incorporate all input keywords. Additionally, we run human evaluation using Amazon Mechanical Turk, in which we asked Turkers to label whether or not a given generated pun was successful. ^13

**Models.** We use the following models:

*AmbiPun* (Mittal et al., 2022). We use the current state-of-the-art homographic pun generation model, AmbiPun, with no further finetuning. We follow the AmbiPun prompt format: “generate sentence: $K$, $p_w$, $a_w$”.

*Finetuned T5* (T5FT). We finetune T5-base on ExPUN using input prompt “generate a pun that situated in $K$, using the word $p_w$, $p_w$ means $S_{p_w}$, $a_w$ means $S_{a_w}$” The output is the pun itself. ^14

*Finetuned T5 with pretraining* (T5PT+FT). To increase the model’s ability to incorporate keywords, we pretrain T5 on non-pun text. For a given pun word, we first extract 200 sentences that contain the pun word from BookCorpus (Zhu et al., 2015), then use RAKE to automatically extract keywords for each sentence. We construct examples where inputs are automatically extracted keywords, and outputs are sentences from BookCorpus including pun words. We pretrain a T5 model with this data before finetuning it on ExPUN.

**Results.** Table 7 shows results of our pun generation models. While the AmbiPun baseline achieves superior word incorporation performance, our T5PT+FT model finetuned using ExPUN keywords generates successful puns at a higher rate, showing the value of training on our dataset. Furthermore, while pun word incorporation is im-

^11 $p_w = a_w$ for homographic puns.

^12 We refer to “fluent puns” primarily in the context of the pun generation task, since generating fluent natural language realizations is often non-trivial, particularly in the case of controllable language generation tasks such as ours.

^13 Turkers had to pass a qualifier by correctly labeling >= 80% of 20 samples that we manually annotated. Success is defined as whether the text supports both senses of the pun word. We measure inter-annotator agreement among 3 annotators using Fleiss’ kappa ($\kappa = 0.49$), showing moderate agreement.

^14 Further experimental details in Appendix E.
