- *Text:* Drinking too much of a certain potent potable may require a leave of absinthe.  
  *Funniness ratings:* [3, 4, 2, 1, 2]  
  *Average rating:* 2.4

- *Text:* Animals that tunnel in the soil have to have an escape root.  
  *Funniness ratings:* [3, 3, 1, 2, 2]  
  *Average rating:* 2.2

- *Text:* My friend’s bakery burned down last night. Now his business is toast.  
  *Funniness ratings:* [4, 3, 2, 1, 2]  
  *Average rating:* 2.4

- *Text:* What is the best store to be in during an earthquake? A stationery store.  
  *Funniness ratings:* [1, 3, 2, 2, 3]  
  *Average rating:* 2.2

### A.2 Feedback from Pilot Rounds

We did a few pilot rounds to help annotators calibrate on funniness, since not only is funniness highly subjective, but also since many puns aren’t “traditionally funny”, but instead more humorous due to being “clever” or “creative”. Feedback we received from annotators was mostly around including more detailed definitions and examples for highly-subjective criteria such as “funniness” and “offensiveness”. We added questions on whether annotators “understood the text” to help distinguish between puns that were not understood vs. puns that were understood but then marked as “not funny”, and added clarifying examples of “joke keywords” to discourage excessive copying of the input text in the annotations.

### A.3 Inter-Annotator Agreement for Offensiveness ($AF_2$)

We note relative low inter-annotator agreement for $AF_2$, as identifying offensive/inappropriate content is a highly subjective and complex task, as it generally covers social stereotypes, biases, aggressive expressions, micro-aggressions, etc. Kappa looks at agreement of raw scores, while Spearman computes correlation of ranks. Combining these differences with the subjectivity of the task could explain the disparity between Kappa and Spearman scores for $AF_2$.

[Figure: Radar chart titled “Occurrence Frequency (%)” showing the top 50 most frequent words in explanations. Radial labels include 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5; word labels around the chart include typically, means, word, like, also, sounds, play, mean, words, used, something, someone, phrase, type, one, people, refers, person, would, make, meaning, refer, get, playing, work, term, could, another, however, similar, time, literally, way, saying, say, different, part, place, usually, use, sound, made, case, often, good, common, things, go, using.]

Figure 3: Top 50 most frequent words in explanations.

## B Analysis of Annotated Explanations

### B.1 Frequent Explanation Keywords

Figure 3 shows the distribution of the top 50 most frequent words in our annotated explanations (after removing stop words and punctuation, as well as the task-specific words “pun” and “joke”).

### B.2 Explanation Sentence Templates

To further explore what kinds of explanations annotators have provided within ExPUN, we use a simple templatization scheme to uncover common patterns. Given an input pun and explanation pair from the dataset, we templatize an explanation by replacing any content words (non-stop words) from the pun that show up in the explanation. For example, for the pun “I wrote a novel about a fellow who had a small garden. It didn’t have much of a plot.”, the explanation sentence “This is a play on the word plot.” would become the template “this is a play on the word [X].” We then count the number of unique templates across the dataset.

Table 9 shows counts frequency counts for different selected templates found in ExPUN. The top half of the table shows instances of highly-frequent explanations, such as “[X] sounds like [X]” indicating a heterographic pun. The bottom half of the table shows examples of unique templates that show up only once but exemplify rich explanations that include context-specific words that are useful for pun understanding. We note that the more frequent templates help to characterize common ways to explain the humor within puns, while the unique templates serve as highly-informative descriptions
