<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Text</strong></td>
<td>Be True to your teeth, or they will be false to you.</td>
<td>Drinking too much of a certain potent potable<br>may require a leave of absinthe.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Understandable</strong></td>
<td>[1, 1, 1, 1, 0]</td>
<td>[1, 1, 1, 1, 1]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Offensive/Inappropriate</strong></td>
<td>[0, 1, 0, 0, 0]</td>
<td>[0, 0, 0, 0, 0]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Is a joke?</strong></td>
<td>[1, 0, 1, 0, 0]</td>
<td>[1, 1, 1, 1, 1]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Funniness (1-5)</strong></td>
<td>[2, 0, 1, 0, 0]</td>
<td>[3, 4, 2, 1, 2]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Natural<br>Language<br>Explanation<br>(NLEx)</strong></td>
<td>NLEx1: Talking about <u>being true as in being real or<br>they will be fake/false teeth.</u><br>NLEx2: <u>False teeth are something people who lose<br>their teeth may have, and being true to your teeth</u><br>may be a way of saying take care of them otherwise<br>you’ll lose them.</td>
<td>NLEx1: It’s a pun that replaces the word absence<br>with absinthe, <u>which is notoriously strong alcohol.</u><br>NLEx2: This is a play on words. <u>Absinthe here<br>represents the liquor by the same name</u> but is meant<br>to replace the similar-sounding “absence”. Too much<br>absinthe will make you ill.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Joke keywords<br>(KWD)</strong></td>
<td>KWD1: [“true”, “teeth”, “false”]<br>KWD2: [“be true”, “teeth”, “false to you”]</td>
<td>KWD1: [“drinking”, “leave of absinthe”]<br>KWD2: [“drinking too much”, “leave of absinthe”]</td>
</tr>
</table>

Table 2: Two examples with annotation fields that we collect. We use <u>underline</u> to mark the commonsense knowledge that people need in order to understand the joke.

the joke offensive or inappropriate. Since these tasks are all highly subjective, we collect multiple annotations per sample, and present a detailed agreement analysis. We believe our annotations can be used in many other applications beyond pun understanding and generation, such as toxicity detection.

The contributions of our work are threefold:

- We contribute extensive high-quality annotations for an existing humor dataset along multiple dimensions.¹

- Based on the annotations, we propose two tasks, explanation generation for pun classification and keyword-conditioned pun generation, to advance research on humor understanding and generation.

- We benchmark state-of-the-art NLP models on explanation generation for pun classification and keyword-conditioned pun generation. Our experiments demonstrate the benefits of utilizing natural language keywords and explanations for humor understanding and generation while highlighting several potential areas of improvement for the existing models.

## 2 ExPUN Dataset

In this section, we describe our data annotation procedure, including details of the annotation fields and our assessment of the annotation quality.

¹Resources will be available at: https://github.com/amazon-research/expunations

### 2.1 Data Preparation

The original SemEval 2017 Task 7 dataset (Miller et al., 2017)² contains puns that are either homographic (exploiting polysemy) or heterographic (exploiting phonological similarity to another word). The dataset also contains examples of non-pun text. We sample 1,999 text samples from SemEval 2017 Task 7 as the basis for our humor annotation. ³

### 2.2 Dataset Annotation

The annotated fields ($AF$) come in the order of:

$AF_1$ [understandability]: whether the annotator understands the text or not, regardless of whether they perceive it as funny.

$AF_2$ [offensiveness]: whether the annotator finds the text offensive or inappropriate.

$AF_3$ [joke]: whether the annotator thinks the text is intended to be a joke.

$AF_4$ [funniness]: rate the funniness on a Likert scale of 1-5, where 1 means very not funny and 5 means very funny.

$AF_5$ [explanation]: explain in concise natural language about why this joke is funny. More specifically, if external or commonsense knowledge is required to understand the joke and/or its humor, the annotator should include the relevant knowledge in the explanation. If the joke is a pun or play on words, they must provide an explanation of how the play on words works.

²https://alt.qcri.org/semeval2017/task7/. The data is released under CC BY-NC 4.0 license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/legalcode).

³We sample 834 heterographic puns, 1,074 homographic puns and 91 non-puns.
