|  | Royal chairs are<br>rarely throne out. | She didn’t marry the<br>gardener. Too rough<br>around the hedges. |
|---|---|---|
| $w_1$ | [Royal chairs,<br>throne out] | [didn’t marry the gardener,<br>too rough around the hedges] |
| $w_2$ | [Royal chairs,<br>throne out] | [didn’t marry the gardener,<br>rough around the hedges] |
| $w_3$ | [Royal chairs,<br>rarely throne out] | [didn’t marry the gardener,<br>rough around the hedges] |
| $w_4$ | [fancy chairs,<br>throne] | [gardener, rough, hedges] |
| $w_5$ | [Royal chairs,<br>throne] | [gardener,<br>rough around the hedges] |
| $w_A$ | [royal chairs,<br>throne out] | [gardener, rough, hedges] |

Table 5: Keyword annotations from different workers. $w_A$ shows aggregated keywords from our algorithm.

chor, and repeat the above process. Finally, by choosing the resulting keyword phrases that attain the maximum average fuzzy matching score between the first and second anchors, we get the final aggregated keywords for this instance.

## 3 Experiments

With the collected annotations, we propose two new tasks, pun explanation and keyword conditioned pun generation, to showcase novel tasks that our dataset uniquely enables and push the frontiers of NLU and NLG for humor. Note that the rich annotations in ExPUN can also enable many other interesting tasks such us pun keywords extraction, fine-grained funniness prediction, and others. However, we prioritize NLG tasks as they are relatively under-explored compared to NLU tasks. In this section, we benchmark current state-of-the-art models’ performance on the proposed tasks.

### 3.1 Pun Explanation

The task of pun explanation takes a pun sentence as input and outputs a natural language explanation of why the pun is funny. This requires extensive understanding of background and commonsense knowledge. We hypothesize that existing NLP models would struggle to generate high-quality explanations for puns. On the other hand, high-quality explanations can improve humor understanding, and thus help tasks such as humor classification.

Formally, given text $T$, our target is to generate an explanation $E_T$ of why $T$ is funny. Additionally, we use the explanations to support the task of pun classification, where, given $T$ (and optionally an explanation $E_T$), we output whether $T$ is a joke.

**Data Preparation.** For each data sample, we use the longest human-written explanation from ExPUN ($AF_5$), substituting in the pun text if no explanation exist.[^9] For pun classification, we assign output labels using the majority vote of $AF_3$ (is a joke). For both tasks, we split our dataset into 1,699/100/200 for train/dev/test. Dev and test contain an equal distribution jokes to non-jokes, while training contains 1,299 jokes and 400 non-jokes.

**Evaluation Metrics.** We do not report lexical overlap metrics as our primary evaluation metric for generated explanations because these are not suited for measuring plausibility (Camburu et al., 2018; Kayser et al., 2021; Clinciu et al., 2021) or faithfulness of explanations (Jacovi and Goldberg, 2020). Rather, we follow prior work and use the “*simulatability score*” metric from Wiegreffe et al. (2021) to measure explanation quality from the lens of usability of the explanation. It reflects the utility of explanations by measuring the improvement in task performance when explanations are provided as additional input vs. when they are not: acc(IE → O) − acc(I → O), where I denotes the input text, E is the explanation and O is the classification of whether I is a joke. We evaluate how useful explanations can be by measuring the performance increase of acc(IE → O) as we increase the ratio of samples with explanations in the training data, and report acc(I → O) as a constant baseline that uses no explanations.

**Models.** We use the following model variations:[^10]

*No explanations.* As a baseline, we finetune BERT-base (Devlin et al., 2019), RoBERTa-base (Liu et al., 2019) and DeBERTa-base (He et al., 2021) to classify whether the given text is a joke without any explanations in the input.

*Gold explanations.* To find the upper bound of how useful explanations can be, we augment the input to the above baseline models with gold human-annotated explanations in both training and testing. The majority of non-punny examples (identified as unfunny by majority vote and thus labeled as unfunny) contain at least one explanation from an annotator who marked it as funny. In these cases,

[^9]: Only 168 samples have no annotated explanations.  
[^10]: Further experimental details in Appendix D.
