on words: Caesar was a Roman Emperor, and “Caesars” sounds like “scissors”, which is something you use to cut hair.

- *Example joke:* There was a kidnapping at school yesterday. Don’t worry, though – he woke up!  
  *Bad explanation:* The joke is a play on words about kidnapping → kid napping.  
  *Good explanation:* The joke is a play on words. The word “kidnapping” implies that a kid was taken hostage at school, but “he woke up” suggests that it was actually just a kid taking a nap instead.

6. Pick out (as few as possible) keyword phrases from the joke that are related to the punch-line/the reason of the joke being funny (written as a pipe-separated (|) list of phrases with spaces).

   - Phrases can be multiple words long.
   - The keyword phrases should be copied verbatim from the joke (no need to reword them).
   - Keep keyword phrases sparse and mainly limited to content words. The keyword phrases should not span the entire joke. As a general guideline, the words in keyword phrases should make up <50% of the words in the full joke (though this may be difficult to achieve for shorter jokes).
   - *Example joke:* I used to hate maths but then I realised decimals have a point.  
     *Bad keywords (too dense):* I used to hate maths but | decimals have a point  
     *Good keywords:* maths | decimals | point

We note that this is a highly subjective task, since different people perceive humor differently! We encourage you to do your best to determine how to annotate each item as consistently as possible.

**Example annotations** (funniness ratings are subjective, and may differ from yours!):

- *Text:* Yesterday I accidentally swallowed some food coloring. The doctor says I’m OK, but I feel like I’ve dyed a little inside.  
  *Understand:* 1  
  *Offensive:* 0  
  *Is a Joke:* 1  
  *Funniness:* 5  
  *Explanation:* The joke is a pun. The main character feels they’ve “died a little inside” meaning they’ve been changed for the worse by swallowing food coloring. At the same time, food coloring contains dye, so the main character has been “dyed” on the inside by swallowing some.  
  *Keywords:* swallowed | food coloring | dyed a little inside

- *Text:* Waiter, there’s a fly in my soup! “I know. It gives you a nice buzz doesn’t it?”  
  *Understand:* 1  
  *Offensive:* 0  
  *Is a Joke:* 1  
  *Funniness:* 2  
  *Explanation:* This is both a pun and a reference to a common joke format. “Waiter, there’s a fly in my soup!” is an old joke setup with varying punchlines. Flies make a noise commonly described as a “buzz”. “Buzz” can be used as a noun referring to a pleasant heightened sensation, commonly from drinking alcohol.  
  *Keywords:* fly | soup | buzz

- *Text:* The evil onion had many lairs.  
  *Understand:* 1  
  *Offensive:* 0  
  *Is a Joke:* 1  
  *Funniness:* 3  
  *Explanation:* This is a pun. An evil lair is a hideout for a villain in a comic book or show. Onions are layered vegetables. The joke is that the onion had many lairs because it was evil.  
  *Keywords:* evil onion | many lairs

- *Text:* Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.  
  *Understand:* 1  
  *Offensive:* 0  
  *Is a Joke:* 0  
  *(No need to fill in any more information in subsequent columns, as this text is not a joke.)*

**Additional calibrating examples** The following examples were rated with an average Funniness rating >= 2 in previous pilot rounds and can be used to calibrate your rubric for assigning Funniness scores.
