$AF_6$ [*joke keywords*]: pick out (as few as possible) keyword phrases from the joke that are related to the punchline/the reason the joke is funny. We emphasize that phrases should be sparse and mainly limited to content words, can be multiple words long, and the keywords should be copied verbatim from the joke.

If an annotator rates the instance as not understandable, they will skip the rest of the annotation for that instance ($AF_2$-$AF_6$). In addition, if an annotator rates an example as not a joke, they can skip the rest of the annotation ($AF_4$-$AF_6$). Table 2 shows two examples in our dataset. The first example has two annotators who think the text is a joke, and therefore it has two explanations. In the second instance, all annotators unanimously agree it is a joke. Here, we sample two explanations from the original five. For both instances, we use underline to highlight the external commonsense knowledge in the explanation. If the joke is a play on words, the explanation also shows how the play on words works (e.g., the second joke). We show the full annotation guidelines, including calibrating examples, in Appendix A.

We crowdsourced 5 annotations per sample using a professional team of 10 dedicated full-time annotators within our organization. Before starting the task, we held a kick-off meeting with the team to explain the annotation guidelines in detail. We then conducted 3 pilot rounds for calibration and iteratively met with annotators, including more details and examples to address annotator questions.[^4] Finally, we conducted 7 rounds of annotation, each with between 100-300 puns per round grouped into minibatches of 50 examples. Each sample in a minibatch was annotated by consistent subteams of 5 annotators. After receiving a completed batch of annotations, we manually examined their quality and provided feedback on any quality issues, redoing batches as necessary.

## 2.3 Dataset Statistics and Quality Control

We report overall dataset statistics in Table 3. For $AF_1$ – $AF_3$, we count the number of samples labeled positive by majority vote. For $AF_4$, we compute the average of all funniness scores, excluding blank annotations, and find that while annotators recognized most samples as jokes, they did not find them to be particularly funny. For $AF_5$ and $AF_6$,

|  | total | $AF_1$ | $AF_2$ | $AF_3$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| # samples | 1,999 | 1,795 | 65 | 1,449 |
| $AF_4$: Avg. funniness |  |  |  | 1.68 |
| $AF_5$: Explanations |  |  |  |  |
| total # explanations |  |  |  | 6,650 |
| avg. # explanations/sample |  |  |  | 3.33 |
| avg. # tokens/expl. |  |  |  | 31.67 |
| avg. # sentences/expl. |  |  |  | 2.01 |
| $AF_6$: Keyword phrases |  |  |  |  |
| avg. # tokens/keyword phrase |  |  |  | 1.33 |
| avg. # keyword phrases/sample |  |  |  | 2.09 |

Table 3: Overall stats for annotation fields in ExPUN.

we compute lexical statistics of our explanations and keyword annotations and provide deeper analysis of these key annotation fields in Section 2.4.

We report inter-annotator agreement for all annotation fields in Table 4.[^5] For fields $AF_1$-$AF_4$, we compute agreement using (1) the average of Cohen’s kappa scores of each annotator against the majority vote, and (2) the average Spearman correlation between each pair of annotators. We find that annotators show moderate agreement when deciding if the given text is a joke ($AF_3$), but lower agreement on the task of understanding the text ($AF_1$) as well as the much more subjective task of rating how funny a joke is ($AF_4$). We also find weak average Spearman correlation between each pair of annotations for the subjective categories of offensiveness ($AF_2$),[^6] whether the text is a joke ($AF_3$) and joke funniness ($AF_4$).

For the free text fields in $AF_5$ and $AF_6$, we compute averaged BLEU-4 (Papineni et al., 2002) and METEOR (Banerjee and Lavie, 2005) scores in a pairwise fashion. We treat each annotator’s explanation (for $AF_5$) or list of keyword phrases joined into a string (for $AF_6$) as candidate text, with the remaining annotators’ annotations as a set of references. We find high similarity between joke keyword annotations, suggesting that annotators identify similar spans of keyword phrases, and a lower degree of similarity between pun explanations.

## 2.4 Dataset Analysis

**Explanations.** As seen in Figures 1a and 1b, on average, samples are annotated with multiple explanations, and the explanations are lengthy, spanning multiple sentences, and lexically diverse (14,748

[^4]: See Appendix A.2 for more details on pilot round feedback.

[^5]: When computing agreement, we exclude the first 100 annotated samples, as these were used as a calibrating pilot.

[^6]: See Appendix A.3 for more details.
