the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. *Journal of Machine Learning Research*, 21(140):1–67.

Nazneen Fatema Rajani, Bryan McCann, Caiming Xiong, and Richard Socher. 2019. Explain yourself! leveraging language models for commonsense reasoning. In *Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 4932–4942, Florence, Italy. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Stuart Rose, Dave Engel, Nick Cramer, and Wendy Cowley. 2010. Automatic keyword extraction from individual documents. *Text mining: applications and theory*, 1(1-20):10–1002.

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Shuyang Gao, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. Context-situated pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*.

Yufei Tian, Divyanshu Arun Sheth, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. A unified framework for pun generation with humor principles. In *Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*.

Alessandro Valitutti, Hannu Toivonen, Antoine Doucet, and Jukka Toivanen. 2013. "let everything turn well in your wife": Generation of adult humor using lexical constraints. volume 2.

Orion Weller and Kevin Seppi. 2019. Humor detection: A transformer gets the last laugh. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 3621–3625, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Sarah Wiegreffe, Ana Marasović, and Noah A. Smith. 2021. Measuring association between labels and free-text rationales. In *Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 10266–10284, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Remi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu, Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin Lhoest, and Alexander Rush. 2020. Transformers: State-of-the-art natural language processing. In *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations*, pages 38–45, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Ziqing Yang, Yiming Cui, Zhipeng Chen, Wanxiang Che, Ting Liu, Shijin Wang, and Guoping Hu. 2020. TextBrewer: An Open-Source Knowledge Distillation Toolkit for Natural Language Processing. In *Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations*, pages 9–16, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zixiaofan Yang, Shayan Hooshmand, and Julia Hirschberg. 2021. CHoRaL: Collecting humor reaction labels from millions of social media users. In *Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 4429–4435, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zhiwei Yu, Jiwei Tan, and Xiaojun Wan. 2018. A neural approach to pun generation. In *Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 1650–1660, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Zhiwei Yu, Hongyu Zang, and Xiaojun Wan. 2020. Homophonic pun generation with lexically constrained rewriting. In *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)*, pages 2870–2876, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Wangchunshu Zhou, Jinyi Hu, Hanlin Zhang, Xiaodan Liang, Maosong Sun, Chenyan Xiong, and Jian Tang. 2020a. Towards interpretable natural language understanding with explanations as latent variables. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, volume 33, pages 6803–6814. Curran Associates, Inc.

Yichao Zhou, Jyun-Yu Jiang, Jieyu Zhao, Kai-Wei Chang, and Wei Wang. 2020b. “the boating store had its best sail ever”: Pronunciation-attentive contextualized pun recognition. In *Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 813–822, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yukun Zhu, Ryan Kiros, Rich Zemel, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Raquel Urtasun, Antonio Torralba, and Sanja Fidler. 2015. Aligning books and movies: Towards story-like visual explanations by watching movies and reading books. In *The IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV)*.

Yanyan Zou and Wei Lu. 2019. Joint detection and location of English puns. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 2117–2123, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.
