# A ExPUN Dataset Annotation Details

## A.1 Annotation Guidelines

Below, we include the annotation guidelines we used to collect the ExPUN dataset. All pun texts in the provided examples are from the original SemEval 2017 Task 7 dataset (Miller et al., 2017).[^15]

**Guidelines** You will be provided a CSV file of short texts, one short text to be annotated per row. Each row contains the text content as well as columns for each of the requested annotations. For each row, read the text carefully, and provide the following annotations:

1. Mark whether you understood the text with 0/1 (0 didn’t understand, 1 understood the text).

   - If you don’t understand the meaning of the text (regardless of whether or not it should be perceived as funny), rate the sample as 0 (didn’t understand).
   - For this assessment, you can use a quick Google search to look up any vocabulary/terms you don’t immediately understand. However, if the amount of research it would take to understand the text goes beyond a quick (<1 min) search, rate the sample as 0 (didn’t understand).
   - *Example text that was marked “don’t understand” (0):* A doctor’s mistakes go six feet under; a dentist’s cover an acre.
   - If you rate this sample as 0 (didn’t understand), skip the rest of the annotation for this sample.

2. Mark whether you find the text offensive or inappropriate with 0/1 (0 not offensive, 1 offensive), meaning the text is racist or is biased against marginalized groups, or is generally offensive. If you rate this sample as 1 (is offensive), you may optionally skip the rest of the annotation for this sample.

3. Mark whether you think the text is intended to be a joke with 0/1 (0 not a joke, 1 is a joke).

   - Text should be labeled as 1 (is a joke) even if it intends to be humorous, but falls flat or is a lame/bad joke.
   - *Example text labeled 0 (not a joke):* All that glistens is not gold.
   - *Example text labeled 1 (is a joke):* These are my parents, said Einstein relatively. *Why is this a joke?* Though subtle, the text is a pun on the word “relatively” that associates Einstein with his relatives (parents) and his theory of relativity.
   - If you rate this sample as 0 (not a joke), skip the rest of the annotation for this sample.

4. Rate funniness on a Likert scale of 1-5 (1 very not funny, 5 very funny).

   - *Score of 1:* A very not funny joke consists of a joke that is not funny at all, or tries to be funny but does not achieve the intended effect.  
     *Example of Funniness 1 (not funny):* These are my parents, said Einstein relatively.
   - *Score of 3:* An average joke consists of a joke that that is average and may elicit some chuckles (or groans) from you or others.  
     *Example of Funniness 3 (average funniness):* When they told him that his drum couldn’t be fixed, it didn’t resonate very well.
   - *Score of 5:* A very funny joke consists of a good joke that you find humorous and potentially would want to share/tell to others.  
     *Example of Funniness 5 (very funny):* Yesterday I accidentally swallowed some food coloring. The doctor says I’m OK, but I feel like I’ve dyed a little inside.

5. Explain in concise natural language about why this joke is funny. If external or commonsense knowledge is required to understand the joke and/or its humor, please include the relevant knowledge in your explanation. If the joke is a pun or play on words, you must provide an explanation of how the play on words works.

   - *Example joke:* What do you use to cut a Roman Emperor’s hair? Caesars.  
     *Bad explanation:* The joke is a play on words about Caesar and scissors.  
     *Good explanation:* The joke is a play

[^15]: https://alt.qcri.org/semeval2017/task7/. The data is released under CC BY-NC 4.0 license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/legalcode).
