| Annotation Field | $\kappa$ | $\rho$ | BLEU | MET. |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $AF_1$: Understand (0/1) | 0.40 | 0.16 | - | - |
| $AF_2$: Offensive (0/1) | 0.16 | 0.34 | - | - |
| $AF_3$: Joke (0/1) | 0.58 | 0.32 | - | - |
| $AF_4$: Funny (1-5) | 0.41 | 0.30 | - | - |
| $AF_5$: Explain (Text) | - | - | 0.18 | 0.30 |
| $AF_6$: Keywords (Text) | - | - | 0.58 | 0.74 |

Table 4: Agreement stats for annotated fields in the Ex-PUN dataset. We report averaged Cohen’s $\kappa$ and Spearman’s $\rho$ for numeric ratings ($AF_1 - AF_4$), and averaged BLEU-4 and METEOR for text fields ($AF_5 - AF_6$).

token vocabulary size, with 210,580 tokens overall). Figure 3 in Appendix B shows the distribution of the top 50 most frequent content-words in our explanations. The frequent use of *usually* and *often* indicate the explanation of commonsense knowledge, e.g., *thunder and lightning are usually present in a weather storm* or *“pain” means physical discomfort often felt by a hospital patient*. The most frequent words, *means* and *word*, indicate that annotators frequently provide word sense information as part of their explanations, while *sounds* frequently appears in explanations of heterographic puns. Each of these most frequent words comprise less than 2.8% of all tokens in the explanations, illustrating the rich diversity of our corpus.[^7]

[Figure: Four distribution plots labeled (a) Tokens/explanation, (b) Sentences/explanation, (c) Tokens/keyword phrase, and (d) Keyword phrases/sample, with horizontal lines showing min, mean, and max values.]

Figure 1: Distributions of (a) number of tokens and (b) number of sentences in explanations ($AF_5$), (c) tokens in keyword phrases ($AF_6$), and (d) keyword phrases per sample. Horizontal lines are used to show the min, mean, and max values for each distribution.

**Keywords.** As seen in Figures 1c and 1d, on average, keyword phrases in ExPUN, which are derived from the original puns, are short and sparse (5,497 token vocabulary size, with 27,820 tokens overall). This follows from our guidelines to annotate keywords concisely, focusing mainly on content words that are essential to understanding the joke. Table 5 shows two examples of pun keyword annotations in our dataset that showcase different annotation styles among annotators. For instance, one annotator may tend to select wordy keyword phrases that introduce unnecessary tokens, while another may omit salient keywords that other annotators mention. Aggregating these annotations among annotators to construct a single ground truth set of keyword phrases is therefore challenging because of differing annotation styles. The problem of merging keywords is further complicated because the keywords from different annotators are often not aligned well, as different annotators may annotate varying numbers of keyword phrases and different spans. Taking these considerations into account, we propose a keyword aggregation algorithm to address these issues and construct a single set of aggregated keywords per sample.

**Keywords Aggregation.** Algorithm 1 in Appendix C describes our keyword aggregation method. The algorithm aims to generate a comprehensive list of concise keywords for each sample. First, we compute a reliability score for each annotation, defined as the average of (# keyword phrases—# average tokens in each keyword phrase). The higher the score, the more comprehensive and concise the keywords from an annotator should be. We choose the annotator with the highest score to be the *anchor*. We note, however, that keyword annotations are not always error-free; e.g., in the first example of Table 5, $w_4$ has an incorrect word (*fancy chairs* instead of *royal chairs*). Therefore, for each keyword phrase, we compute the fuzzy matching score between the anchor’s annotation with the rest of annotators’ annotations. For each annotator, we keep the keyword phrase that has the highest fuzzy matching score with the anchor annotator’s, with a minimum threshold score of 60.[^8] This process produces a filtered keyword list where each of the remaining keyword phrases look similar to the anchor’s. Then, we compute the average fuzzy matching score between the anchor’s keyword phrase and each element in the filtered keyword list. We then choose the annotator with the second-highest reliability score to be the an-

[^7]: We show an analysis of highly-frequent explanation templates, as well as unique and highly-informative templates, in Appendix B.

[^8]: This is empirically determined.
