arXiv:2210.13513v1 [cs.CL] 24 Oct 2022

# ExPUNations: Augmenting Puns with Keywords and Explanations

Jiao Sun<sup>1*†</sup> Anjali Narayan-Chen<sup>2†</sup> Shereen Oraby<sup>2</sup> Alessandra Cervone<sup>2</sup>  
Tagyoung Chung<sup>2</sup> Jing Huang<sup>2</sup> Yang Liu<sup>2</sup> Nanyun Peng<sup>2,3</sup>  
<sup>1</sup>University of Southern California  
<sup>2</sup>Amazon Alexa AI  
<sup>3</sup>University of California, Los Angeles  
`jiaosun@usc.edu`  
`{naraanja,orabys,cervon,tagyoung,jhuangz,yangliud}@amazon.com`  
`violetpeng@cs.ucla.edu`

## Abstract

The tasks of humor understanding and generation are challenging and subjective even for humans, requiring commonsense and real-world knowledge to master. Puns, in particular, add the challenge of fusing that knowledge with the ability to interpret lexical-semantic ambiguity. In this paper, we present the ExPUNations (ExPUN) dataset, in which we augment an existing dataset of puns with detailed crowdsourced annotations of keywords denoting the most distinctive words that make the text funny, pun explanations describing why the text is funny, and fine-grained funniness ratings. This is the first humor dataset with such extensive and fine-grained annotations specifically for puns. Based on these annotations, we propose two tasks: explanation generation to aid with pun classification and keyword-conditioned pun generation, to challenge the current state-of-the-art natural language understanding and generation models’ ability to understand and generate humor. We showcase that the annotated keywords we collect are helpful for generating better novel humorous texts in human evaluation, and that our natural language explanations can be leveraged to improve both the accuracy and robustness of humor classifiers.

<table>
<tr>
<td>Text</td>
<td>When artists dream in color it’s a pigment of their imagination.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>KWD</td>
<td><mark>artists</mark>, <mark>dream</mark>, <mark>color</mark>, <mark>pigment</mark>, <mark>imagination</mark>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NLEx</td>
<td>Pigments are non-soluble materials often used in painting, and pigment sounds like figment, which is something that is not real but someone believes it is.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Text</td>
<td>The man found something to catch fish, which was a net gain.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>KWD</td>
<td><mark>catch fish</mark>, <mark>net gain</mark>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NLEx</td>
<td>This is a play on words. A “net gain” means an increase in revenue but here “net” refers to how a net is used to catch fish.</td>
</tr>
</table>

Table 1: Two examples of annotated Keywords (KWD) and Natural Language Explanations (NLEx) for puns in our dataset. The <mark>highlighted</mark> texts are annotated keywords that contribute to making the text funny.

## 1 Introduction

Humor serves multiple purposes and provides numerous benefits, such as relieving anxiety, avoiding painful feelings and facilitating learning (Buxman, 2008). As a specific example of humor, the creative uses of puns, wordplay and ambiguity are important ways to come up with jokes (Chiaro, 2006). Pun understanding and generation are particularly challenging tasks because they require extensive commonsense and world knowledge to compose and understand, even for humans. Despite growing interest in the area, there are limited amounts of data available in the domain of humor understanding and generation.

Existing humor datasets are usually only annotated with binary labels indicating whether each sentence is a joke, pun, or punchline (Hasan et al., 2019; Weller and Seppi, 2019; Castro et al., 2018; Mittal et al., 2021). This is insufficient to benchmark models’ ability to understand and generate novel humorous text, since hardly anything meaningful can be learned from such a sparse supervision signal and coarse-grained annotation.

To facilitate research on humor understanding and generation, we present the ExPUNations (ExPUN) dataset, in which we augment an existing dataset of puns from SemEval 2017 Task 7 (Miller et al., 2017) with detailed crowdsourced annotations of fine-grained funniness ratings on a Likert scale of one to five, along with keywords denoting the most distinctive words that make the text funny and natural language explanations describing why the text is funny (Table 1). In addition, we collect annotations indicating whether a person understands the sentence, thinks it is a pun, and finds

<sup>*</sup>Work done during Jiao’s internship at Amazon.  
<sup>†</sup>Both authors equally contributed to the paper.
