| Key-<br>words | Model | Word Incorp. %<br>$p_w$ | $K$ | both | Success<br>Rate % |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| RAKE | $T5_{\mathrm{FT}}$ | 90.0 | 76.4 | 80.2 | 35.0 |
|  | $T5_{\mathrm{PT+FT}}$ | **99.0** | 72.9 | 81.2 | 54.0 |
| ExPUN | AmbiPun | **99.0** | **92.1** | **94.4** | 51.0 |
|  | $T5_{\mathrm{FT}}$ | 58.0 | 80.3 | 72.3 | 40.0 |
|  | $T5_{\mathrm{PT+FT}}$ | 93.0 | 80.2 | 83.5 | **77.0** |

Table 7: Automatic (Word Incorporation Rate) and human evaluation (Success %) of puns generated by models finetuned using automatically-extracted (RAKE) and human-annotated (ExPUN) keywords (with AmbiPun baseline (Mittal et al., 2022)). PT stands for Pre-Training and FT stands for Fine-Tuning. Both $T5_{\mathrm{PT+FT}}$ models finetuned with RAKE-based keywords or ExPUN-based keywords use RAKE-based keywords during pretraining.

proved by pretraining on outside sources using RAKE keywords, using automatically-extracted keywords when training on in-domain pun text does not translate to more successful puns. Instead, models finetuned with the more carefully-selected, human-annotated ExPUN keywords generate puns relatively more successfully than their RAKE-trained counterparts.

Table 8 shows examples of generated puns from our ExPUN-$T5_{\mathrm{PT+FT}}$ model. The model is able to generate both homographic and heterographic puns somewhat coherently using one of the pun word senses. However, while some puns are successful, Rows 3 and 6 show some ways our model can struggle to generate the respective pun types: it does not always incorporate the alternate word sense in a clever or meaningful way, and can stitch copied input keywords together into incoherent sentences. Our results show pun generation is a very challenging task, and that careful selection of pun keywords and a deeper understanding of humor in wordplay is essential for generating puns successfully.

| # | $p_w, a_w$ | $K$ | Generated Pun |
|---:|---|---|---|
| 1 | solution/<br>solution | scientist,<br>problem,<br>liquid<br>chemicals | A liquid chemicals<br>scientist has a problem<br>with a solution. |
| 2 | makeup/<br>makeup | class,<br>beauty<br>school | A beauty school class<br>was cancelled because<br>of a lack of makeup. |
| 3 | charges/<br>charges | farmer,<br>bull | The farmer, the bull,<br>had to pay the charges. |
| 4 | fission/<br>fishing | nuclear<br>physicist,<br>vacation, trip | The nuclear physicist<br>took a trip to the Bahamas<br>for his fission vacation. |
| 5 | fare/<br>fair | carnival,<br>county | The carnival in the<br>county was a fare event. |
| 6 | vault/<br>fault | bankers,<br>generous | OLD BACHERS never<br>die they just become very<br>generous. They have a<br>vault fault. |

Table 8: Examples of input pun words and keywords and the resulting generated puns. We show examples of both homographic and heterographic generated puns.

## 4 Related Work

In this work, we contribute annotations for a humor dataset as well as two humor-related generation tasks. The work is broadly related to pun generation, pun detection, explanation generation, and humor generation. We briefly summarize works in these directions.

**Pun generation.** Many of the previous works on pun generation have focused on phonological or syntactic patterns rather than semantic patterns (Miller and Gurevych, 2015; Hong and Ong, 2009; Petrović and Matthews, 2013; Valitutti et al., 2013), thus lacking flexibility. He et al. (2019) make use of local-global surprisal principle to generate homophonic puns and Yu et al. (2020) uses constrained lexical rewriting for the same task. Hashimoto et al. (2018) use a retrieve and edit approach to generate homographic puns and Yu et al. (2018); Luo et al. (2019) propose complex neural model architectures such as constrained language model and GAN. Mittal et al. (2022) generate homographic puns given a polyseme and try to incorporate the multiple senses of the polyseme. Tian et al. (2022) proposed a unified framework to generate both homographic and homophonic puns leveraging humor principles. Our keyword-conditioned pun generation task encourages models to focus more on the linguistic structures via pun keywords as we observe that human-extracted keywords usually reflect the ambiguity and distinctiveness principles as discussed in Kao et al. (2016). The keyword-conditioned pun generation setup can also facilitate more engaging pun generation scenarios such as context-situated pun generation (Sun et al., 2022).

**Humor generation.** With the recent advent of diverse datasets (Hasan et al., 2019; Mittal et al., 2021; Yang et al., 2021), it has become easier to detect and generate humor. While large pre-trained models have become fairly successful at detection, humor generation still remains an unsolved problem. Therefore, humor generation is usually studied in a specific settings. Petrović and Matthews
