[Figure: Three line charts of pun classification accuracy. Each x-axis is labeled “Explanations in Training”; each y-axis is labeled “Three-seed Average Accuracy (%)”. Legends include BERT, RoBERTa, DeBERTa; panel (a) also includes “BERT w/ gold expl.”, “RoBERTa w/ gold expl.”, “DeBERTa w/ gold expl.”, “BERT w/ gold + sampled neg.”, “RoBERTa w/ gold + sampled neg.”, “DeBERTa w/ gold + sampled neg.”; panel (b) includes “BERT w/ gen expl.”, “RoBERTa w/ gen expl.”, “DeBERTa w/ gen expl.”; panel (c) includes “ELV”.]

(a) Gold explanations during test.  (b) Generated explanations during test.  (c) ELV model.

**Figure 2:** The impact of using human-written (2a) and model-generated explanations (2b and 2c) vs. no explanations (constant dotted lines) on pun classification accuracy. All reported numbers are computed with three-seed average. For each data point, we train a model on the full dataset, but only provide explanations for a given percentage, as shown on the x-axis.

we use any provided explanations as $E$, both in training and in testing with gold explanations. Otherwise, to construct training examples that have no annotated explanations, or where explanations are held out, we try two variants: (1) representing the missing explanation as an empty string (“w/ gold expl.”), or (2) randomly sampling a negative explanation from another annotated example to use as input (“w/ gold + sampled neg.”).

_Generated explanations._ Following previous work on explanation generation (Wiegreffe et al., 2021), we first finetune a T5 (Raffel et al., 2020) model to generate pun explanations given pun sentences as input. For text that contains no annotated explanations, we use the pun sentence itself as the output explanation. We then use gold human-annotated explanations to train and T5-generated explanations to test the explanation-augmented classification models.

_ELV_ (Zhou et al., 2020a). ELV is a probabilistic framework for text classification where natural language Explanations are treated as Latent Variables. Two modules, an explanation generation module and an explanation-augmented prediction module are jointly trained using a variational EM framework. As another baseline, we train an ELV model for pun classification using the ExPUN dataset.

**Results.** We show our results on the pun classification task in Figure 2. Baseline performance of the _no explanations_ models are shown using constant dotted lines. Figure 2a shows the upper bound of performance improvement when models are provided with _gold explanations_, indicating that human-written explanations are useful for this task, and that including more gold explanations in training data generally helps. In particular, adding randomly-sampled negative explanations (“w/ gold + sampled neg.”) further improves the classification accuracy, showing the utility of our collected explanations in improving model performance. However, Figure 2b shows that using _generated explanations_ at test time does not help to improve classification accuracy. Using the more carefully-designed ELV framework to jointly train the generation and classification modules shows improvement in classification accuracy (Figure 2c); however, qualitative analysis of the ELV explanations showed that many generated outputs are not fluent natural language, suggesting that performance improvements may stem more from modeling improvements as opposed to explanations. Given the huge improvements we see when incorporating gold explanations during test, we note explanations are clearly highly valuable if the quality of generated explanations can be improved.

Table 6 shows examples of T5-generated explanations for given puns. Qualitative analysis shows that generated explanations often identify the relevant pun word, and can include somewhat accurate word sense information for one sense of the pun. However, the model usually fails to explain the alternate word sense and its relation, which is crucial to understanding the wordplay. The model especially fails to explain phonological similarity in heterographic puns; e.g., in the first three examples, explanations fail to mention alternate words _carry_, _whet_ and _humor_. For both pun types, our model can devolve into repetitively copying words from the input. Our results exhibit the challenge of generating good pun explanations and that high-quality explanations are useful for understanding humor.

### 3.2 Keyword-Conditioned Pun Generation

The task of keyword-conditioned pun generation takes human-annotated pun keywords as input and
