| Freq | Explanation Sentence Template |
|---:|---|
| 466 | [X] sounds like [X] |
| 116 | this is a pun on the word “[X]” |
| 16 | [X] is a type of [X] |
| 11 | this joke is playing on the word “[X]”<br>and its different meanings |
| 8 | [X] is another word for [X] |
| 3 | [X] has two meanings |
| **Pun** | **A gambling gardener usually hedges his bets.** |
| 1 | to “hedge your [X]” means to take a chance on<br>something and a hedge is a type of shape that<br>a [X] can cut plants into |
| **Pun** | **I must attend my flock, said Tom, sheepishly.** |
| 1 | this is an attempt at a joke since a group of<br>sheep are known as a [X] and ‘sheepishly’<br>is another term for ‘embarrassed’ |
| **Pun** | **People who make necklaces may get**<br>**beady eyes.** |
| 1 | “[X]” here refers to the beads in [X] and<br>the way [X] have to hyper-focus their [X] when<br>crafting hand-made jewelry |

Table 9: Sample explanation sentence templates collected in ExPUN, along with their frequencies.

that can aid in the pun classification task (e.g., a detailed, contextualized definition of a word/phrase).

## C Keyword Aggregation Algorithm

We propose the keyword aggregation algorithm in Algorithm 1 to merge keywords annotation among different workers.

**Algorithm 1** Keyword Aggregation Algorithm

**Input:** For each instance $X_i, i \in \{1, ..., N\}$, annotations from every worker $w_j, j \in \{1, ..., 5\}$ denoted as $X_{ij}$.  
**Output:** keywords for $X_i$

1: **for** $j \in \{1, ..., 5\}$ **do**  
2: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;// calculate the reliability score  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;$S_j = \frac{1}{N}\sum_{i=0}^{N}(\#\text{keywords}-\#\text{average tokens in each keyword})$  
3: **end for**  
4: sort all workers with $S$ and get preferred worker list $L$  
5: // set **worker with the highest $S$ as anchor worker** $w_a$  
6: aggregated_keywords = []  
7: **for** $K_z \in X_{ia}$ **do**  
8: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;filtered_keywords $K_{\text{filter}} = []$  
9: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**for** $j \in \{1, ..., 5\}$ **do**  
10: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**for** $K_p \in X_{ij}$ **do**  
11: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;calculate $F(K_z, K_p)$  
12: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**end for**  
13: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;choose the keyword $K_P$ in $X_{ij}$ with highest $F$  
14: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**if** $F(K_z, K_P) > 60$ **then**  
15: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;append keyword $K_P$ to $K_{\text{filter}}$  
16: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**end if**  
17: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**end for**  
18: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;$AVG_a = \frac{1}{len(K_{\text{filter}})} \sum F(K_z, K)K \in K_{\text{filter}}$  
19: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;set the worker with the second highest $S$ as new anchor worker $w_b$. Repeat L6-L18 and get $AVG_b$  
20: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**if** $AVG_a \ge AVG_b$ **then**  
21: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;append $X_{ia}$ to aggregated_keywords  
22: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**else**  
23: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;append $X_{ib}$ to aggregated_keywords  
24: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**end if**  
25: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;/* if only one worker has keyword annotation, append this worker’s annotation to aggregated_keywords */  
26: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Remove duplication from aggregated_keywords  
27: **end for**

## D Classifier Implementation Details

We finetune pretrained language models for classifying whether given text samples are jokes, and we use HuggingFace (Wolf et al., 2020) throughout our implementation for accessing model checkpoints and modeling. For hyper-parameter search, we tried the combinations of learning rate $\{1e^{-4}, 3e^{-4}, 1e^{-5}, 3e^{-5}\}$ \* training epoch $\{3, 10, 20\}$. The final hyperparameters for bert-base, roberta-base and deberta-base are: learning rate $1e^{-5}$, training epoch 20 and training batch size 32. For roberta-large-mnli and bart-large-mnli models, we reduce the training epochs to 3 and training batch size to 8. We choose the checkpoint with the best accuracy on the dev set for inference.

For ELV model, we use the released code and inherited most of their default hyperparameters for *ELV-sa*.[^16] We change the training batch size per GPU to 4 to accelerate the training.

## E T5 Implementation Details

We finetune multiple T5 models (Raffel et al., 2020) in our work, and we use T5-base from SimpleT5[^17] throughout our implementation. We use 512 and 256 for the maximum source length and the maximum target length respectively. As the optimizer, we use AdamW (Loshchilov and Hutter, 2019) with a learning rate of 0.0001. For the pretraining stage, we finetune T5 for 3 epochs on retrieved BookCorpus data. During the finetuning stage, we train each model on a Tesla V100 with a batch size of 8 for 30 epochs. During inference, we use beam search as the decoding method with a beam size of 2. We terminate decoding when the EOS token is generated or the maximum target length is reached.

[^16]: https://github.com/JamesHujy/ELV/blob/main/EST_sa/train_restaurant.sh

[^17]: https://github.com/Shivanandroy/simpleT5
