(2013) generates jokes of the type ’I like my X like I like my Y, Z’. Garimella et al. (2020) develops a model to fill blanks in a Mad Libs format to generate humorous sentences and Yang et al. (2020) edit headlines to make them funny. More research is required to generate humorous sentences that are not constrained by their semantic structure.

**Natural language explanation generation.** Collecting and utilizing natural language explanations to help various NLP tasks is an emerging topic. The earliest work by Ling et al. (2017) collected natural language justifications, called rationales, to help solve math problems. However, their setup is limited to solving math problems given how their rationales and models were structured. Jansen et al. (2018) composed a dataset of explanation graphs for elementary science questions to support multi-hop inference. Like Ling et al. (2017), they emphasized the explanations structures. Several works have introduced large-scale datasets of natural language explanations for the natural language inference (NLI) (Camburu et al., 2018; Kumar and Talukdar, 2020), commonsense reasoning (Rajani et al., 2019), and hate speech detection (Mathew et al., 2021) tasks. However, there are no existing datasets or models that focus on explaining humor, which is a challenging task that involves commonsense and world knowledge.

**Pun detection.** Being able to detect puns can be an essential step to generating them. SemEval 2017 Task 7 (Miller et al., 2017) introduced the challenge of pun detection, location detection and sense interpretation for homographic and heterographic puns. They also released a dataset which has become the backbone of our and several other related works. Diao et al. (2019) make use of gated attention networks to detection heterographic puns. Zou and Lu (2019) introduce a tagging scheme to jointly detect and locate puns, and apply this approach to both heterographic and homographic puns. Zhou et al. (2020b) jointly model contextual and phonological features into a self-attentive embedding in their approach for pun detection and location tasks.

## 5 Conclusion

In this paper, we contribute a dataset of extensive, high-quality annotations of humor explanation, keywords, and fine-grained funniness ratings. This is the first humor dataset with such extensive and fine-grained annotations. Based on the annotations, we propose two tasks: pun explanation and keyword-conditioned pun generation, to challenge state-of-the-art natural language understanding and generation models’ ability to understand and generate humorous text. We benchmark several strong models’ performances on the two proposed tasks to validate the practical usage of the proposed annotations, and show that our human-annotated explanations and keywords are beneficial in understanding and generating humor. Future directions include a deeper analysis of how to characterize pun explanation more objectively within our annotation scheme, as well as further exploration of better models for both the pun explanation and pun generation tasks.

## Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank Scott Benson and the rest of the Alexa Data Services Rapid Machine Learning Prototyping (RAMP) team for all of their help with preparing and performing the annotation task. We also thank anonymous reviewers for their constructive feedback and suggestions that helped improve the paper.

## Limitations

This work focuses on understanding and generation of puns, a single and very specific form of humorous language. We hope that our annotation schema and methods can be used in the future to extend to other forms of humor, e.g., joke generation. Additionally, we acknowledge that humor is a highly subjective area, i.e., what might be perceived as humorous may differ greatly from one person to another depending on their unique backgrounds and experiences. We hope this work can be used as an initial framework to begin characterizing humor through human-written explanations, such that it can be used more broadly to give insight into what contributes to humorous content for different individuals and groups.

Finally, since we use pretrained language models for our generation tasks, we note that this makes our models susceptible to generating biased or sensitive content. While we do not explicitly address concerns around bias/sensitive content within our framework to date, we aim to incorporate these considerations into pun generation as we develop new models, including methods to filter our inputs and generated data for toxicity and biased references that may be deemed offensive.
