## Ethics

We hereby acknowledge that all of the co-authors of this work are aware of the provided *ACL Code of Ethics* and honor the code of conduct.

The text in the dataset (puns and non-pun text) is from the SemEval 2017 Task 7 dataset (Miller et al., 2017) including jokes, aphorisms, and other short texts sourced from professional humorists and online collections. No user data from commercial voice assistant systems is used. We collect the human annotation of pun keywords, explanations, and other meta-fields via full-time employees (with all employee-entitled fringe benefits) who are hired by the co-authors’ organization for the purposes of data annotation and are not co-authors of the paper. We ensure that all the personal information of the workers involved (e.g., usernames, emails, urls, demographic information, etc.) is discarded in our dataset. Overall, we ensure our pay per task is above the the annotator’s local minimum wage (approximately \$15 USD / Hour).

## References

Satanjeev Banerjee and Alon Lavie. 2005. METEOR: An automatic metric for MT evaluation with improved correlation with human judgments. In *Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Intrinsic and Extrinsic Evaluation Measures for Machine Translation and/or Summarization*, pages 65–72, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Karyn Buxman. 2008. Humor in the OR: A stitch in time? *AORN journal*, 88(1):67–77.

Oana-Maria Camburu, Tim Rocktäschel, Thomas Lukasiewicz, and Phil Blunsom. 2018. e-SNLI: Natural language inference with natural language explanations. In S. Bengio, H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, K. Grauman, N. Cesa-Bianchi, and R. Garnett, editors, *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31*, pages 9539–9549. Curran Associates, Inc.

Santiago Castro, Luis Chiruzzo, Aiala Rosá, Diego Garat, and Guillermo Moncecchi. 2018. A crowd-annotated Spanish corpus for humor analysis. In *Proceedings of the Sixth International Workshop on Natural Language Processing for Social Media*, pages 7–11, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Delia Chiaro. 2006. *The language of jokes: Analyzing verbal play*. Routledge.

Miruna-Adriana Clinciu, Arash Eshghi, and Helen Hastie. 2021. A study of automatic metrics for the evaluation of natural language explanations. In *Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Main Volume*, pages 2376–2387, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yufeng Diao, Hongfei Lin, Liang Yang, Xiaochao Fan, Di Wu, Dongyu Zhang, and Kan Xu. 2019. Heterographic pun recognition via pronunciation and spelling understanding gated attention network. In *The World Wide Web Conference*, page 363–371.

Aparna Garimella, Carmen Banea, Nabil Hossain, and Rada Mihalcea. 2020. “judge me by my size (noun), do you?” YodaLib: A demographic-aware humor generation framework. In *Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics*, pages 2814–2825, Barcelona, Spain (Online). International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Md Kamrul Hasan, Wasifur Rahman, AmirAli Bagher Zadeh, Jianyuan Zhong, Md Iftekhar Tanveer, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Mohammed (Ehsan) Hoque. 2019. UR-FUNNY: A multimodal language dataset for understanding humor. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)*, pages 2046–2056, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Tatsunori B. Hashimoto, Kelvin Guu, Yonatan Oren, and Percy S. Liang. 2018. A retrieve-and-edit framework for predicting structured outputs. In *NeurIPS*, pages 10073–10083.

He He, Nanyun Peng, and Percy Liang. 2019. Pun generation with surprise. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 1734–1744, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Pengcheng He, Xiaodong Liu, Jianfeng Gao, and Weizhu Chen. 2021. DeBERTa: Decoding-enhanced BERT with disentangled attention. In *International Conference on Learning Representations*.

Bryan Anthony Hong and Ethel Ong. 2009. Automatically extracting word relationships as templates for pun generation. In *Proceedings of the Workshop*
