Table 22: Performance by database scale across different groups.

| Group | Scale of Joke DB | pass@1 (%) | pass@3 (%) | pass@5 (%) |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| **Top 10** |  |  |  |  |
|  | 0% | 58.2 | 73.2 | 78.4 |
|  | 25% | 63.4 | 82.0 | 87.1 |
|  | 50% | 65.7 | 78.5 | 81.7 |
|  | 75% | 66.1 | 80.3 | 87.6 |
|  | **100%** | 66.4 | 83.7 | 89.2 |
| **#200-209** |  |  |  |  |
|  | 0% | 60.3 | 75.1 | 80.8 |
|  | 25% | 66.2 | 84.9 | 88.7 |
|  | 50% | 69.0 | 86.3 | 91.4 |
|  | 75% | 71.5 | 87.2 | 92.1 |
|  | **100%** | 73.4 | 88.4 | 92.6 |
| **#1000-1009** |  |  |  |  |
|  | 0% | 63.2 | 78.7 | 83.7 |
|  | 25% | 69.4 | 81.8 | 85.7 |
|  | 50% | 72.9 | 84.3 | 90.0 |
|  | 75% | 74.6 | 86.2 | 93.8 |
|  | **100%** | 76.3 | 90.5 | 94.2 |

## D Failure Analysis

HOMER struggles with purely formal or inherently non-humorous images, especially when script opposition is difficult to detect. These cases are challenging even for humans, and the lack of narrative content and clear humor cues results in captions with limited humor.

## E Style Control

Our modular architecture enables controlled stylistic conditioning through curated imagination trees and the design of instructions in prompts. For example, the imagination tree can retrieve relevant semantic ambiguities among jokes in the joke database. Then, the Generator can reinforce selected imaginative entities through explicit style directives guided by the designed instruction.

## F Related Works

**Classical Computational Humor.** Computational humor, as a challenging branch of computational linguistics, employs computational methods to study humor (Binsted et al., 2006; Wang et al., 2025), mainly including humor recognition (Cattle & Ma, 2018; Liu et al., 2018a; Xie et al., 2021; Zhou et al., 2020; Zou & Lu, 2019; Liu et al., 2018b; Shang et al., 2021), humor explanation (Hessel et al., 2023; Patro et al., 2021; Amin & Burghardt, 2020), and humor generation (Amin & Burghardt, 2020; Weller et al., 2020; Yamane et al., 2021; Zargham et al., 2023) tasks. Classical computational humor research focused on rule-based, statistical approaches, and multimodal techniques for detecting and modeling humor across text, audio, and vision (Inácio et al., 2023; Amin & Burghardt, 2020; Yang et al., 2015; Chauhan et al., 2021; Christ et al., 2022; Hasan et al., 2019).

## G Prompt Design

**Prompt design in conflicting script extractor.** We design the prompt to instruct the conflicting script extractor to analyze a script-opposition-central situation description as the contextual background of the funny caption and then systematically identify and analyze conflicting or incongruous elements in the image $I$. The prompt includes the definition of script opposition, GTVH theory and the description of the image. It to analyze and extract all relevant conflicting scripts that exist in the situation description $D$ and the image $I$. The detailed prompt can be found in Appendix Figure 12.
