et al. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:24824–24837.

Orion Weller and Kevin Seppi. 2020. The rJokes dataset: a large scale humor collection. In Proceedings of the Twelfth Language Resources and Evaluation Conference, pages 6136–6141, Marseille, France. European Language Resources Association.

Jiaming Wu, Hongfei Lin, Liang Yang, and Bo Xu. 2021. Mumor: A multimodal dataset for humor detection in conversations. In Natural Language Processing and Chinese Computing: 10th CCF International Conference, NLPCC 2021, Qingdao, China, October 13–17, 2021, Proceedings, Part I, page 619–627, Berlin, Heidelberg. Springer-Verlag.

Yufan Wu, Yinghui He, Yilin Jia, Rada Mihalcea, Yulong Chen, and Naihao Deng. 2023. Hi-ToM: A benchmark for evaluating higher-order theory of mind reasoning in large language models. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, pages 10691–10706, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Diyi Yang, Alon Lavie, Chris Dyer, and Eduard Hovy. 2015. Humor recognition and humor anchor extraction. In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2367–2376, Lisbon, Portugal. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Dongyu Zhang, Heting Zhang, Xikai Liu, Hongfei Lin, and Feng Xia. 2019. Telling the whole story: A manually annotated chinese dataset for the analysis of humor in jokes. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.

Min Zhang, Jianfeng He, Taoran Ji, and Chang-Tien Lu. 2024a. Don’t go to extremes: Revealing the excessive sensitivity and calibration limitations of llms in implicit hate speech detection.

Tianyi Zhang, Faisal Ladhak, Esin Durmus, Percy Liang, Kathleen McKeown, and Tatsunori B. Hashimoto. 2024b. Benchmarking Large Language Models for News Summarization. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 12:39–57.

Jun Zhao, Zhihao Zhang, Qi Zhang, Tao Gui, and Xuanjing Huang. 2024. Llama beyond english: An empirical study on language capability transfer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.01055.
