**Hallucinations.** LLMs may fabricate ungrounded details or facts in joke explanations. For instance, in the explanation in Figure 12, GPT-4o claims that “Li Bai’s name sounds similar to two steps”, while “Li Bai” (pronounced as *lee bye*) does not sound like “two steps” (pronounced as *er boo*).

On the other hand, the correct explanation requires an understanding of a Chinese poem from Li Bai, “十步杀一人” (The warrior kills a person for every ten steps). This line praises the courage of the soldiers, but the joke deliberately portrays this as a characteristic of Li Bai. Therefore, compared to Li Bai who can kill a person in ten steps, a five-step snake, which can kill a person in five steps, is twice as dangerous as Li Bai. Such explanation requires LLMs to have a deep understanding of Chinese culture and reason over cultural references, posing a great challenge to current LLMs. Although recent works have made progress towards building LLMs beyond English (Du et al., 2024; Zhao et al., 2024), building an LLM that can comprehend such nuanced Chinese cultural terms can be extremely hard.

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Example</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) 曹操于城楼上问夏侯惇：“你瞧到了什么。”<br>
夏侯惇说：“瞧到马岱。”<br><br>
(en) Cao Cao, from atop the city tower, asked Xia Houdun, “What did you see?” Xia Houdun replied, “I saw Ma Dai.”
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Correct<br>Humor<br>Explanation</strong></td>
<td>
Cao Cao, Xiahou Dun, and Ma Dai were historical figures from the Three Kingdoms period in ancient China. The phrase “saw Ma Dai” (pronounced as <em>chuh dow ma die</em>) not only literally refers to spotting Ma Dai but also play on similar pronunciation with the Japanese phrase “ちょっと待って” (<em>chotto matte</em>), which means to “wait a moment.”
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>GPT-4o’s<br>Answer</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) ... 这个笑话的幽默之处在于利用了“马岱”这个名字的谐音梗，听起来像“妈的”，让人误以为夏侯惇在骂人。<br><br>
(en) ... a pun involving the name "Ma Dai," which sounds like "damn" in Chinese. It sounds like Xiahou Dun is swearing at Cao Cao.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Failure<br>Reasons</strong></td>
<td>
Fail to recognize information/elements across different languages.
</td>
</tr>
</table>

Figure 13: Cross-lingual error example.

**Cross-lingual Error.** LLMs may fail to recognize elements or information across different languages. In the explanation in Figure 13, GPT-4o attempts to link the pronunciation of “Ma Dai” to other Chinese terms but fails to identify the similar pronunciations across the Chinese term “瞧到马岱” (pronounced as *chuh dow ma die*, meaning “saw Ma Dai”) and the Japanese term “ちょっと待って” (*chotto matte*, meaning “wait a moment”). Such cases require LLMs to connect pronunciations across languages, which may be rare in the LLMs’ pre-training corpus and poses significant challenges to current LLMs.

**Overcritical.** Figure 14 shows when the model overly criticizes an explanation, it focuses excessively on minor details, neglecting the major point and ultimately misjudging the explanation. The joke relies on common sense about life, death, and testing rather than cultural knowledge. Under the CoT prompting, the model recognizes that the explanation identifies the main punchlines but overly criticizes the lack of cultural context.

**Excessive Sensitivity.** For ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$, in addition to errors across all the aforementioned categories, it also demonstrates excessive sensitivity to certain examples. Specifically, when content includes languages related to hate speech but used in non-harmful contexts, ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$ refuses
