ing LLMs’ reasoning abilities across diverse cultural backgrounds.

## Limitations

We try our best to test the Chinese humor understanding ability of different LLMs. However, due to the limited budget and API access, we cannot evaluate all possible LLMs in this paper. We encourage future research to conduct further evaluations of humor understanding abilities in LLMs. In the meantime, we emphasize that our research focuses primarily on demonstrating how humor understanding remains a significant challenge, even for SOTA LLMs. Our work shows that along with many other problems (Ignat et al., 2024), humor understanding, especially non-English and culturally specific humor understanding, remains an unsolved problem in the era of LLMs. We hope *Chumor* can contribute to non-English humor understanding evaluations for future multilingual LLMs.

## Ethics Statement

We have made every effort to filter out excessively offensive content in RZB. However, due to the subjective nature of humor, some of our jokes may still be perceived as offensive by individuals with different cultural or personal standards. To address these concerns, we strongly recommend that researchers use *Chumor* with cultural sensitivity, recognizing that the jokes in the dataset reflect the sociocultural context in which they were created. We encourage users of *Chumor* to approach the dataset with caution, remaining mindful of its potential to cause offense or harm, particularly when applying it in research or applications that involve diverse audiences or address sensitive topics. We wish to foster an ethical and responsible approach to data collection and usage, and we welcome constructive feedback from the research community and stakeholders to continually improve *Chumor* and mitigate potential harm.

## 7 Acknowledgement

The GPT experiments are supported by credit from OpenAI through OpenAI Researcher Access assigned to Naihao Deng. We appreciate Qiang Liu, and Xiaoyue Shi for helping with the human study.

## References

01.ai. 2024. Yi-34b model card. https://huggingface.co/01-ai/Yi-34B. Accessed: 2024-12-10.

Mistral AI. 2024. Mistral-large-instruct-2407 model card. https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-Large-Instruct-2407. Accessed: 2024-12-10.

Badr AlKhamissi, Muhammad ElNokrashy, Mai Alkhamissi, and Mona Diab. 2024. Investigating cultural alignment of large language models. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 12404–12422, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yuelin Bai, Xinrun Du, Yiming Liang, Yonggang Jin, Ziqiang Liu, Junting Zhou, Tianyu Zheng, Xincheng Zhang, Nuo Ma, Zekun Wang, et al. 2024. Coig-cqia: Quality is all you need for chinese instruction fine-tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.18058.

Baidu. 2024. Ernie-4.0-turbo. https://cloud.baidu.com/doc/WENXINWORKSHOP/s/7lxwwtafj. Accessed: 2024-12-10.

Dario Bertero and Pascale Fung. 2016. Deep learning of audio and language features for humor prediction. In Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’16), pages 496–501, Portorož, Slovenia. European Language Resources Association (ELRA).

BigModel. 2024. Glm-4 model documentation. https://bigmodel.cn/dev/howuse/glm-4. Accessed: 2024-12-10.

Lei Chen and Chong Min Lee. 2017. Predicting audience’s laughter during presentations using convolutional neural network. In Proceedings of the 12th Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 86–90, Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yuyan Chen, Zhixu Li, Jiaqing Liang, Yanghua Xiao, Bang Liu, and Yunwen Chen. 2023. Can pretrained language models understand chinese humor? In Proceedings of the Sixteenth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining, WSDM ’23, page 465–480, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Yuyan Chen, Yichen Yuan, Panjun Liu, Dayiheng Liu, Qinghao Guan, Mengfei Guo, Haiming Peng, Bang Liu, Zhixu Li, and Yanghua Xiao. 2024. Talk funny! a large-scale humor response dataset with chain-of-humor interpretation. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 38(16):17826–17834.

Peter T. Daniels and William Bright. 1996. The world’s writing systems. Oxford University Press.
