| Dataset | Sources | Lan. | #(k) | Tasks |
|---|---|---|---:|---|
| One Liners (2005) | Web | en | 16 | HR |
| Pun of the Day (2015) | Web | en | 4.8 | HR<br>PD |
| Big Bang Theory (2016) | TV | en | 44 | PD |
| Ted Laughter (2017) | TED | en | 9.4 | HR<br>PD |
| #HashtagWars (2017) | TV | en | 13 | HC |
| HumorNorm (2018) | CS† | en | 5 | HC |
| UR-FUNNY (2019) | TED | en | 17 | PD |
| Humicroedit (2019) | Reddit | en | 15 | HG |
| rJokes (2020) | Reddit | en | 57 | HC |
| Memotion (2020) | Memes | en | 9.8 | HC |
| MUMOR (2021) | TV | en<br>zh | 30 | HR |
| NYT-Captions (2023) | NYT | en | 0.7<br>2.6 | HR<br>HC |
| $C^3$ (2022) | Books | zh | 9.3 | HG |
| TalkFunny (2024) | Apps | zh | 4.1 | HG |
| TCHD (2023) | – | zh | 26 | HR<br>HC<br>PD |
| TTWS (2019) | Books | zh | 9.1 | PD |
| CHM (2020) | Apps<br>Web | zh | 3.3 | HC |
| Memeplate (2022) | Apps<br>Web | zh | 5.2 | HC |
| *Chumor* (us) | Web | zh | 3.3 | **HE** |

Table 2: Existing datasets related to humor. For the shorthands in the table, abbreviations represent the following tasks, HR: humor recognition; PD: punchline detection; HC: humor comparison; HG: humor generation; HE: humor explanation †: Crowd-source.

tifacts, which limit the fairness and effectiveness of multilingual evaluations (Mihalcea et al., 2024). Researchers have proposed various culturally specific datasets such as Global-MMLU (Singh et al., 2024) to evaluate LLMs’ cultural knowledge. *Chumor* adds to this line of effort as it involves rich knowledge specific to Chinese culture.

## 3 Chumor Dataset

**Data Collection.** We construct our dataset by including RZB jokes from “Best Annual Threads” between 2018 and 2021 that have been previously crawled*. In addition, we directly collect all threads in the “Moderator’s Recommendation” section from RZB. Each thread in RZB consists of “标题” (title), “一楼” (content), and several “跟帖” (follow-up posts). For threads from Best Annual Threads, the jokes are listed in the follow-up posts, which are selected by the forum moderator. For threads from Moderator’s Recommendation, the jokes consist of the title and the content of each thread. We remove the content if it repeats the title.

\*https://github.com/Leymore/ruozhiba

**Data Cleaning.** We store both the title and the content of the raw data. However, due to the posting restrictions of the platform requiring non-empty content, many posts contain meaningless placeholder texts such as “.”, “!”, “0”, “RT”, and others. We automatically identify and remove these patterns, and only keep the title which is the joke itself. Due to the length limitations on the original platform, many post titles are truncated from the beginning parts of the content. We identify these instances and replace the truncated title with the complete content to get the joke. We also remove duplicates that appear both in the “Moderator’s Recommendation” and the “Best Annual Posts”.

We manually remove the threads related to forum management and rules, threads that include excessively offensive content, threads with incomplete content, and threads that focus more on philosophical insight rather than humor.

**Humor Explanation Classification.** We design a humor explanation classification task that can be easily used to test LLMs’ capabilities in humor understanding. Specifically, we use two LLMs, GPT-4o and ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$ to generate explanations for our collected jokes. We manually annotate the generated explanations as either “fully explain the joke” (good) or “partially explain or not explain the joke” (bad) based on a majority vote among five of the authors who are native Chinese speakers. Each joke, along with its explanation, forms an individual instance in *Chumor*, leading to a total of 3,339 instances. Among these, 1,454 items are labeled as good and 1,887 as bad explanations.

**Data Examples from *Chumor*.** We present examples from *Chumor* in Table 3.

**Humor Categorization in *Chumor*.** We categorize the jokes in RZB into six types in Table 1, with an example provided for each type.

## 4 Experiments

**Models.** We test ten LLMs, five from the open-source LLM families and five from the closed-source LLM families, all capable of handling Chinese. Specifically, we include the open-source LLMs of **Yi$_{34B}$** (01.ai, 2024) from 01.AI, **Nemotron$_{70B}$** (NVIDIA, 2024) from NVIDIA, **Athene$_{70B}$** (Nexusflow, 2024) from Nexusflow, **Qwen2.5$_{72B}$** (Qwen, 2024) from Alibaba, **Mistral$_{123B}$** (AI, 2024) from Mistral AI, alongside the closed-source LLMs of **Gemini1.5-pro**
