<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Joke</th>
<th>Explanation</th>
<th>Label</th>
<th>Source</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>(zh) “你自己掰了一千吨玉米?!” “哈哈我瞎掰的”</td>
<td>(zh) 这个笑话的幽默之处在于对话中的双关语和出人意料的回答。“掰了一千吨玉米”看似是一个惊人的壮举，而“哈哈我瞎掰的”则瞬间揭露了这其实是一个夸张的玩笑，这种巧妙的反转和语言的戏谑带来了幽默感。</td>
<td rowspan="2">good</td>
<td rowspan="2">E</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(en) “You harvested a thousand tons of corn all by yourself?!” "Haha, I just made it up."</td>
<td>(en) The humor in this joke lies in the pun and the unexpected response in the conversation. “Harvested a thousand tons of corn” seems like an extraordinary achievement, but the reply, “Haha, I just made it up,” instantly reveals it to be an exaggerated joke. This clever twist and playful use of language create the comedic effect.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(zh) 小明突然出现在我面前以至于我突然出现在小明面前。</td>
<td>(zh) 这个笑话的幽默之处在于它利用了语言的对称性和意外性。小明突然出现导致叙述者的惊讶反应，而叙述者的惊讶反应又反过来让小明感到意外，<span style="color:red"><u>形成了一个有趣的循环</u></span>。</td>
<td rowspan="2"><span style="color:red"><u>bad</u></span></td>
<td rowspan="2">G</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(en) Xiaoming suddenly appeared in front of me, causing me to suddenly appear in front of him.</td>
<td>(en) The humor in this joke lies in its use of linguistic symmetry and unexpectedness. Xiao Ming’s sudden appearance triggers a surprised reaction from the narrator, which in turn surprises Xiao Ming, <span style="color:red"><u>creating an amusing loop</u></span>.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 3: Examples from *Chumor*. For sources, “G” and “E” indicate the explanation comes from GPT-4o and ERNIE<sub>4-turbo</sub>, respectively. The second example’s explanation is bad because the joke does not “creating an amusing loop”. Instead, it relies on linguistic symmetry and the use of a straightforward fact to subvert expectations. The audience anticipates an unexpected outcome due to the setup, but the latter part “suddenly appear in front of him” flips the perspective by stating the straightforward fact that because Xiao Ming is in front of the person so the person is in front of Xiao Ming too.

(Google, 2024) from Google, **GLM-4<sub>plus</sub>** (Big-Model, 2024) from Tsinghua University, **GPT-4<sub>turbo</sub>, GPT-4o** (OpenAI, 2023, 2024) from OpenAI, **ERNIE<sub>4-turbo</sub>** (Baidu, 2024) from Baidu. For all the open-source LLMs, we use the instruction-tuned version in our evaluation.

**Evaluation Methods.** We evaluate these LLMs using two prompting methods: direct prompting (DP) by

**Direct Prompting (DP)**

你将看到一个笑话以及对这个笑话的解释。  
请判断这个解释是否完全解释了笑话。 根据判断，选择“完全解释”或“部分/没有解释”，不需要解释为什么对或者不对。  
笑话：{joke}  
笑话解释：{explanation}

**Prompt Translation**

You will see a joke and an explanation of the joke. Please determine whether this explanation fully explains the joke. Based on your judgment, choose either “fully explain” or “partially/does not explain.” You do not need to explain why it is correct or incorrect.  
Joke: {joke}  
Explanation: {explanation}

and chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting (Wei et al., 2022) by adding the phrase “请逐步思考，写下过程” (Please think step by step, write down your reasoning process) before determining the label. Appendix E provides the complete prompts.

We calculate accuracy scores as part of our evaluation. In addition, we provide the false positive rate (FPR), false negative rate (FNR), and Matthews Correlation Coefficient (MCC) in Appendix F in Table 4. The MCC score considers true positives, true negatives, false positives, and false negatives, providing a score between -1 and +1. A score of +1 indicates perfect predictions, 0 reflects random guessing, and -1 means complete disagreement. The best MCC score achieved by LLMs is 0.29, which is close to random guessing, and is significantly lower than the human average of 0.60.

## 5 Results and Discussions

**Overall Model Performance.** Figure 1 presents the accuracy of different LLMs on *Chumor* in DP and CoT settings. Appendix F presents additional results and analysis.

Overall, we observe that all models perform poorly on Chinese humor comprehension, with accuracy scores ranging between 44.6% and 60.3%. ERNIE<sub>4-turbo</sub> and Gemini<sub>1.5-pro</sub> achieve the highest accuracy of 60.3%, and are just 10 points above the random baseline and far below human performance of 78.3%, highlighting the difficulty of *Chumor* and the limitations of these LLMs in understanding Chinese humor.
