<table>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="3"><strong>Cultural</strong></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Desc.</td>
    <td colspan="2">Require knowledge of specific historical, social, or linguistic contexts.</td>
    <td rowspan="3">Figure 6</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Ex.</td>
    <td>(zh)</td>
    <td>小明在正月接发竟导致舅舅复活。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>(en)</td>
    <td>Xiaoming got hair extensions during the first lunar month, which astonishingly brought his uncle back to life.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="3"><strong>Situational</strong></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Desc.</td>
    <td colspan="2">Involve humor derived from specific contexts, irony, or narrative setups.</td>
    <td rowspan="3">Figure 9</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Ex.</td>
    <td>(zh)</td>
    <td>真可怕，犯罪嫌疑人就在我们之中,被告席上一名法警对另一名法警说。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>(en)</td>
    <td>“Terrifying, the criminal suspect is right between the two of us,” said one bailiff to another in the defendant’s dock.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="3"><strong>Pun-based</strong></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Desc.</td>
    <td colspan="2">Build on linguistic ambiguity and wordplay, require models to identify dual meanings.</td>
    <td rowspan="3">Figure 7</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Ex.</td>
    <td>(zh)</td>
    <td>你可以在steam上找到GTA，所以水是DNA。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>(en)</td>
    <td>You can find GTA on Steam, so water is DNA.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="3"><strong>Homophonic</strong></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Desc.</td>
    <td colspan="2">Rely on phonetic similarities between words or phrases to create humor.</td>
    <td rowspan="3">Figure 8</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Ex.</td>
    <td>(zh)</td>
    <td>家里的猪油没了，小明只能把植物油倒快点当猪油用了。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>(en)</td>
    <td>With the lard gone, Xiaoming had to pour the vegetable oil quickly to use it like lard.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="3"><strong>Glyph-based</strong></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Desc.</td>
    <td colspan="2">Exploit the structural or visual elements of Chinese characters to create humor.</td>
    <td rowspan="3">Figure 10</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Ex.</td>
    <td>(zh)</td>
    <td>我把電車難題簡化了，現在是电车难题。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>(en)</td>
    <td>I simplified the trolley problem (in traditional Chinese), now it’s the trolley problem (in simplified Chinese).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="3"><strong>Cross-lingual</strong></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Desc.</td>
    <td colspan="2">Involve humor derived from linguistic or phonetic interplay across multiple languages.</td>
    <td rowspan="3">Figure 13</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Ex.</td>
    <td>(zh)</td>
    <td>曹操于城楼上问夏侯惇：“你瞧到了什么。”夏侯惇说：“瞧到马岱。”</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>(en)</td>
    <td>Cao Cao, from atop the city tower, asked Xia Houdun, “What did you see?” Xia Houdun replied, “I saw Ma Dai.”</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Table 1: Different types of jokes. Descriptions (Desc.) explain humor mechanisms. Examples (Ex.) illustrate each category. The corresponding explanations can be found in the referenced figures from the rightmost column.

ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$ versus human. Our results indicate that human-annotated joke explanations are significantly better than those produced by GPT-4o or ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$ (Figure 4), with LLMs yielding winning rates of only 6.2% for GPT-4o and 5.3% for ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$ compared to humans.

In summary, our contributions are three folds:

1. We construct *Chumor*, a funny and challenging Chinese humor understanding dataset, which is the largest Chinese humor explanation dataset.

2. We evaluate ten LLMs on *Chumor* and reveal the significant challenges *Chumor* possesses. We highlight that the best accuracy achieved by LLMs is 60.3%, significantly lower than human’s score of 78.3%.

3. We demonstrate that chain-of-thought prompting can hurt LLM’s performance in humor reasoning, and that human-annotated joke explanations are significantly better than those produced by GPT-4o and ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$, encouraging future research on culturally specific humor understanding

## 2 Related Works

**Humor Datasets.** Humor analysis in natural language processing (NLP) encompasses a wide range of tasks, each focused on different aspects of humor. For instance, researchers have proposed datasets such as “16000 One-Liners” (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005), “Pun of the Day” (Yang et al., 2015), and “Ted Laughter” (Chen and Lee, 2017) focused on humor detection to determine whether a given text is humorous or not. Datasets such as “Big Bang Theory” (Bertero and Fung, 2016) aim at pinpointing the punchline in a joke. Tasks for assessing humor intensity include humor level rating, comparison, and ranking. For example, datasets like HumorNorm (Engelthaler and Hills, 2018) and #HashtagWars (Potash et al., 2017) quantify humor scores and compare comedic elements, while UR-FUNNY ranks punchlines based on their perceived impact. Datasets such as “Humicroedit” (Hossain et al., 2019), “C$^3$” (Wang et al., 2022), and “Talk-Funny” (Chen et al., 2024) focus on humor generation, the task of generating or rewriting humorous texts. In addition, we present a comprehensive overview of the existing datasets related to humor in Table 2. We highlight that most existing datasets are in English. Chinese humor, on the other hand, is less explored. Our dataset, *Chumor* is the first humor explanation dataset in Chinese.

**Culturally Specific Datasets.** Recent works underscore the challenges of culturally specific reasoning in LLMs (Shen et al., 2024; AlKhamissi et al., 2024; Pawar et al., 2024; Vayani et al., 2024). These challenges stem from the overrepresentation of Western-centric knowledge and translation ar-
