arXiv:2412.17729v1 [cs.CL] 23 Dec 2024

# *Chumor* 2.0: Towards Benchmarking Chinese Humor Understanding

**Ruiqi He$^{1}$** **Yushu He$^{1}$** **Longju Bai$^{1}$** **Jiarui Liu$^{2}$** **Zhenjie Sun$^{1}$** **Zenghao Tang$^{3}$**  
**He Wang$^{2}$** **Hanchen Xia$^{3}$** **Rada Mihalcea$^{1}$** **Naihao Deng$^{1*}$**  
$^{1}$University of Michigan $^{2}$Carnegie Mellon University $^{3}$Shanghai Jiaotong University  
`{ruiqih, dnaihao}@umich.edu`

## Abstract

Existing humor datasets and evaluations predominantly focus on English, leaving limited resources for culturally nuanced humor in non-English languages like Chinese. To address this gap, we construct *Chumor*, the first Chinese humor explanation dataset that exceeds the size of existing humor datasets. *Chumor* is sourced from Ruo Zhi Ba (RZB, 弱智吧), a Chinese Reddit-like platform known for sharing intellectually challenging and culturally specific jokes. We test ten LLMs through direct and chain-of-thought prompting, revealing that *Chumor* poses significant challenges to existing LLMs, with their accuracy slightly above random and far below human. In addition, our analysis highlights that human-annotated humor explanations are significantly better than those generated by GPT-4o and ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$. We release *Chumor* at `https://huggingface.co/datasets/dnaihao/Chumor`, our project page is at `https://dnaihao.github.io/Chumor-dataset/`, our leaderboard is at `https://huggingface.co/spaces/dnaihao/Chumor`, and our code-base is at `https://github.com/dnaihao/Chumor-dataset`.

## 1 Introduction

Humor is an intrinsic human trait that touches the core of our social and emotional lives, making it a rich field of study across various disciplines (Lefcourt, 2001; Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005; Gelkopf et al., 2011; Hessel et al., 2023). With the advent of Large Language Models (LLMs), researchers have evaluated LLMs’ performance on diverse tasks (Liu et al., 2023a; Deng et al., 2024; Wu et al., 2023) and observed LLMs’ extraordinary performance on many (Zhang et al., 2024b). In contrast, researchers have observed that LLMs still fail to understand humor (Ghanadian et al., 2023). However, with all these studies on humor, most evaluations remain in English (Radev et al., 2016; Hasan et al., 2019). This presents a significant gap, particularly for non-English languages like Chinese, where culturally nuanced humor understanding is unexamined.

In this paper, we try to bridge this gap by constructing *Chumor*, a funny and challenging Chinese humor understanding dataset sourced from Ruo Zhi Ba (RZB, “弱智吧” in Chinese), a Chinese version of Reddit platform known for sharing intellectually challenging and culturally specific jokes. This platform provides a set of unique Chinese jokes that incorporate the subtleties and intricacies of Chinese humor. Table 1 provides examples of the jokes from RZB. In addition, Bai et al. (2024) reveal that tuning LLMs on RZB data yields the best performance on Chinese reasoning tasks compared to other data sources, highlighting the significant value of jokes from RZB.

Unlike existing datasets that focus on tasks such as humor detection, punchline identification, or humor generation, *Chumor* addresses the challenge of humor explanation. This involves not just identifying humor but understanding the reasoning behind it, a task that requires both linguistic and cultural knowledge. Specifically, *Chumor* tasks the LLMs with determining whether an explanation fully explains the joke. We source the explanations from GPT-4o and ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$, and have the entire dataset manually annotated by five native Chinese speakers. We evaluate ten LLMs from various model families, and reveal that all models perform poorly, lagging significantly behind humans on *Chumor*. We observe that chain-of-thought prompting does not necessarily improve models performance and can sometimes confuse their reasoning process. In addition, we conduct a case study in which one of the authors annotates the entire dataset, followed by A/B testing conducted by six native Chinese speakers to compare explanations from GPT-4o versus human, and

\*Corresponding author of this work.
