standing.

### 5.3 Does chain-of-thought (CoT) help LLMs’ humor understanding?

**Answer: No.** We observe that CoT does not necessarily improve model performance and, in most cases, even leads to performance decay. For instance, as shown in Figure 1, the accuracy of ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$ decreases from 60.3% to 45.2% when we switch to CoT prompting, Mistral$_{123B}$’s performance drops from 55.6% to 51.2%, GPT-4o’s performance drops from 51.9% to 50.6%, GPT-4$_{\text{turbo}}$’s performance falls from 52.3% to 51.3%. Moreover, the MCC scores present a clearer trend of performance decline under CoT prompting. As shown in Figure 15 in Appendix F, eight of the ten LLMs’ MCC scores decrease under CoT prompting. We hypothesize that CoT prompts may not help the model’s reasoning when the model lacks a fundamental grasp of humor understanding.

We observe that under CoT prompting, models like GPT-4o tend to justify incorrect explanations as “correct”, leading to an increase in false-positive rate from 80.0% for DP prompting to 85.0% for CoT prompting (Table 4 in Appendix F). ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$ exhibits the largest false-positive rate, rising from 59.8% to 96.9% (Table 4 in Appendix F). Figure 3 provides an example where CoT confuses the GPT-4o model. Under the DP prompting, the GPT-4o model chooses the answer correctly. However, CoT prompting causes the model to over-analyze and justify an incorrect explanation.

On the other hand, models like Nemotron$_{70B}$ may be overly critical of explanations under CoT prompting, resulting in a false-negative rate from 20.9% for DP prompting to 46.1% for CoT prompting (Table 4 in Appendix F). We highlight that a recent work demonstrates that CoT can degrade performance in tasks requiring subtle comprehension (Sprague et al., 2024), which aligns with our findings on its limitations in humor interpretation. Figure 14 in Appendix D discusses an example corresponding to the model being overly critical.

### 5.4 Case study: can GPT-4o and ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$ explain jokes as well as humans?

**Answer: No.** Apart from testing multiple LLMs on *Chumor*, we conduct case studies on GPT-4o and ERNIE$_{4\text{-turbo}}$ to assess the quality of their joke explanations compared to humans. We prompt them to explain the humor in two sentences, consistent with the format of human explanations. Here is the prompt we feed to both LLMs:

| Prompt |
| --- |
| 请用两句话解释这个笑话的幽默之处: [Joke] |

, which translates to the following prompt.

| Prompt Translation |
| --- |
| Please explain the joke in two sentences: [Joke] |

**Data Annotation.** As demonstrated by Hessel et al. (2023), crowd-sourcing typically cannot produce high-quality explanations, following Hessel et al. (2023), one of the authors annotates all the explanations to ensure the quality and consistency.

This is a substantial effort: the author ended up annotating the explanations for 1,951 jokes. The resulting corpus has a mean of 78 Chinese characters of explanation per joke, and the total length, 151,730 Chinese characters, is comparable in length to a novella*.

**Evaluation Setup.** To fairly evaluate which explanation is better, we conduct A/B testing by presenting the humor explanation from one LLM and from human to six college students, asking them to annotate their preference of the explanation for each joke. These college students are native Chinese speakers who grew up in China, therefore they have a deep understanding of the cultural terms and trending terms in China. We note that the preference annotation requires a substantial effort as each annotator reads through a total length of around 300k Chinese characters*. We end up with three preference annotations for each joke. The preference annotation achieve a 61.4% agreement rate among annotators (Appendix B).

We use the winning rate as our measure to compare LLMs’ explanation versus human explanation, taking the majority vote among all annotators for each example. In addition, if all annotators disagree, we assign an “Undecided” label. Appendix C provides the annotation instructions we present to the annotators.

\*The total length of our explanations surpasses the Chinese version of *The Great Gatsby* (100k Chinese characters), and is about half the length of the Chinese version of *Wuthering Heights* (325k Chinese characters).

\*This is about the same length of the Chinese version of *Wuthering Heights* (325k Chinese characters).
