provide three error cases for GPT-4o here and more cases for GPT-4o and ERNIE Bot in Appendix E. In the following examples, we underscore the key phrases that induce humor in green, and underscore the errors in red.

**Cultural Unawareness.**

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Example</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) 小明在<span style="color: green;"><u>正月接发</u></span>竟导致<span style="color: green;"><u>舅舅复活</u></span>。<br><br>
(en) Xiaoming <span style="color: green;"><u>got hair extensions during the first lunar month</u></span>, which astonishingly <span style="color: green;"><u>brought his uncle back to life</u></span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Correct<br>Humor<br>Explanation</strong></td>
<td>
“Getting a haircut in the first lunar month will bring death to your uncle.” is a popular superstitious saying in Chinese culture. In this joke, Xiao Ming gets hair extensions in the first month, which reverses the original logic and absurdly results in “bringing his uncle back to life.”
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>GPT-4o’s<br>Answer</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) ...它利用了<span style="color: red;"><u>“接发”和“接福”的双关语</u></span>：一方面是指理发店的接发服务，另一方面是指正月里“接福”的传统习俗。<br><br>
(en) ...<span style="color: red;"><u>the pun on “接发”</u></span>: it refers to both hair extension at a salon and the traditional practice of “receiving blessings” during the first lunar month.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Failure<br>Reasons</strong></td>
<td>
Fail to grasp expressions, slang, or specific usages unique to a particular cultural context.
</td>
</tr>
</table>

LLMs may fail to explain the joke because they are not aware of certain cultural knowledge. For instance, this example requires the knowledge of a superstitious belief in Chinese culture, *getting a haircut in the first lunar month brings death to your uncle*, and the explanation from GPT-4o fails to connect to this Chinese cultural belief. Though LLMs have been pre-trained on Internet-scale corpus, such culturally specific knowledge can still be very challenging for them to grasp. Moreover, even if they have acquired such cultural knowledge, they may fail to relate to them as we humans do in the reasoning process.

**Homophonic Humor.**

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Example</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) 家里的猪油没了，小明只能把<span style="color: green;"><u>植物</u></span>油倒快点当<span style="color: green;"><u>猪</u></span>油用了。<br>
(en) With the lard gone, Xiaoming had to pour the <span style="color: green;"><u>vegetable</u></span> oil quickly to use it like <span style="color: green;"><u>lard</u></span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Correct<br>Humor<br>Explanation</strong></td>
<td>
When pronounced quickly, “vegetable” (pronounced as <em>chih woo</em>) sounds very similar to “pig” (pronounced as <em>choo</em>) in Chinese, leading Xiaoming to comically try using vegetable oil as lard by pouring it quickly.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>GPT-4o’s<br>Answer</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) ...小明误解了猪油和植物油的区别，认为只要倒得快，植物油就能变成猪油。<span style="color: red;"><u>笑点在于他天真的逻辑和对常识的搞笑误解。</u></span><br><br>
(en) ... Xiaoming misunderstood that if vegetable oil is poured quickly, it can turn into lard, <span style="color: red;"><u>highlighting his naive logic and misinterpretation of common sense.</u></span>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Failure<br>Reasons</strong></td>
<td>
Fail to exploit homophones or near-homophones in the jokes.
</td>
</tr>
</table>

LLMs may fail to exploit homophones or near-homophones in the joke. This example requires LLMs to reason over the pronunciation as “植物” (pronounced as *chih woo*, meaning “vegetable”) sounds very similar to “猪” (pronounced as *choo*, meaning “pig”) in Chinese when we speak it fast enough, and the humor arises from the contrast between how similarly the items are pronounced and how unrelated they actually are. Such contrast may be sparse in the training corpus for LLMs, and also requires deep connections across different modalities to make LLMs understand the linkage between pronunciation and the meaning behind these terms.

**Character-based Humor.**

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Example</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) 我把<span style="color: green;"><u>電車難題</u></span>简化了，现在是<span style="color: green;"><u>电车难题</u></span>。<br><br>
(en) I simplified <span style="color: green;"><u>the trolley problem (in traditional Chinese)</u></span>, now it's <span style="color: green;"><u>the trolley problem (in simplified Chinese)</u></span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Correct<br>Humor<br>Explanation</strong></td>
<td>
The joke does not actually simplify the scenario of the trolley problem; instead, it converts the traditional Chinese characters “電車難題” into the simplified Chinese characters “电车难题”.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>GPT-4o’s<br>Answer</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) ...这个笑话的幽默之处在于通过<span style="color: red;"><u>将“電車難題”中的“難”字去掉，变成了“电车题”。</u></span><br><br>
(en) ...The humor of this joke lies in <span style="color: red;"><u>removing the character “hard” from “the hard trolly problem”, turning it into “the trolly problem”.</u></span>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Failure<br>Reasons</strong></td>
<td>
Fail to interpret the visual puns in the shape or form of the characters.
</td>
</tr>
</table>

LLMs may fail to interpret the visual puns in the shape or form for Chinese characters. In this example, “simplify” does not mean to simplify the trolly problem, but to simplify the traditional Chinese characters to simplified Chinese characters as the traditional Chinese characters are also termed as
