<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Example</strong></td>
<td>(zh) 曹操于城楼上问夏侯惇: “你瞅到了什么。”<br>夏侯惇说: “<u>瞅到马岱。</u>”<br><br>(en) Cao Cao, from atop the city tower, asked Xia Houdun, “What did you see?” Xia Houdun replied, “<u>I saw Ma Dai.</u>”</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Correct<br>Humor<br>Explanation</strong></td>
<td>Cao Cao, Xiahou Dun, and Ma Dai were historical figures from the Three Kingdoms period in ancient China. The phrase “saw Ma Dai” (pronounced as <em>chuh dow ma die</em>) not only literally refers to spotting Ma Dai but also play on similar pronunciation with the Japanese phrase “ちょっと待って” (<em>chotto matte</em>), which means to “wait a moment.”</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>GPT-4o’s<br>Answer</strong></td>
<td>(zh) … <u>这个笑话的幽默之处在于利用了“马岱”这个名字的谐音，听起来像“妈的”</u>，让人误以为夏侯惇在骂人。<br><br>(en) … <u>a pun involving the name "Ma Dai," which sounds like "damn" in Chinese.</u> It sounds like Xiahou Dun is swearing at Cao Cao.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Failure<br>Reasons</strong></td>
<td>Fail to recognize information/elements across different languages.</td>
</tr>
</table>

LLMs may fail to recognize elements or information across different languages. In its explanation, GPT-4o tries to link the pronunciation of “Ma Dai” to other Chinese terms but fails to reason on the similar pronunciations across the Chinese term “瞅到马岱” (pronounced as *chuh dow ma die*, meaning “saw Ma Dai”) and the Japanese term “ちょっと待って” (*chotto matte*, meaning “wait a moment”). Such examples require LLMs to connect pronunciations across languages, which may be rare in the LLMs’ pre-training corpus and poses significant challenges to current LLMs.

**Excessive Sensitivity.** For ERNIE Bot, apart from making mistakes in all the aforementioned categories, it also shows excessive sensitivity to certain examples. Specifically, for content that contains languages related to hate speech but used in non-harmful contexts, ERNIE Bot refuses to answer. During our evaluation, we observe excessive sensitivity in the ERNIE Bot’s responses to humor related to medical ethics, and political discussions. This suggests that how to correctly understand the context and the language toxicity remains an open challenge (Zhang et al., 2024a). Such a problem is especially important for humor explanation, as misclassifying non-toxic context can lead to responses that deviate from the intended humor.

## F Can LLMs Serve as Preference Annotator?

Figure 4 presents the results of GPT-4o preference study. We prompt the GPT-4o by:

[Figure: Horizontal stacked bar chart showing 20.9% Human wins, 6.6% Tie, and 72.6% GPT-4o wins; legend labels: Human wins, Tie, GPT-4o wins.]

Figure 4: Preference annotation from GPT-4o. We prompt GPT-4o to choose a better explanation between its own explanation and the explanation written by human. We note that the GPT-4o’s preference is significantly different from the human preference in Figure 1.

“对于笑话“[Joke]”  
以下两个解释  
解释1: [Explanation 1]  
解释2: [Explanation 2]  
哪个解释更好的解释了这个笑话的幽默之处？”，  
which translates to,  
“For the joke“[Joke]”  
The following two explanations  
Explanation 1: [Explanation 1]  
Explanation 2: [Explanation 2]  
Which one better explains the reason for why this joke is funny?”

Though prior works have shown the promise of employing LLMs as evaluators (Fu et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023c). We note that as the evaluator for humor explanation, GPT-4o’s preference significantly differs from the human preference compared to Figure 1. Our results show that GPT-4o significantly favors its own explanation than explanation from human, which aligns with the finding in previous study that LLM evaluators prefer their own answer (Panickssery et al., 2024). But for a small proportion of the dataset, GPT-4o prefers explanation from human than the explanation from itself, and Figure 2 demonstrates one such example, which shows the potential of leveraging LLMs in automatic humor evaluation.

## G Potential Application

First, we expect researchers to use *Chumor* to comprehensively evaluate the humor understanding abilities of LLMs. We want to stress that this may not be an effort limited to the NLP community, but researchers from psychology, cognitive science and beyond can also use *Chumor* to study how human perceives humor differently than LLMs. Such insights can in turn guide the algorithm innovation in the NLP community on humor understanding.

In addition, *Chumor* contains comprehensive linguistic and cultural components. We expect researchers to use *Chumor* to evaluate the culture-
