<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Example</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) 你可以在 <u>steam</u> 上找到 <u>GTA</u>, 所以水是 DNA。<br><br>
(en) You can find <u>GTA</u> on <u>Steam</u>, so water is DNA.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Correct<br>Humor<br>Explanation</strong></td>
<td>
Normally, “Steam” refers to a gaming platform and “GTA” refers to the “Grand Theft Auto” game series. The joke uses a pun, where “steam” literally means the gaseous form of water, and “G”, “T”, and “A” represent Guanine, Thymine, and Adenine, respectively—three of the four nucleotides (AGTC) that make up DNA.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>GPT-4o’s<br>Answer</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) …这种<u>明显错误的类比</u>制造了荒诞的效果，引人发笑。<br><br>
(en) …This <u>clearly wrong analogy</u> creates an absurd effect.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Failure<br>Reasons</strong></td>
<td>
Fail to discover multiple meanings of a word in the jokes
</td>
</tr>
</table>

LLMs may fail to discover multiple meanings of the same word in the joke, leading to its failure on pun-based jokes where the humor lies in inverting the conventional usage of words. In this example, GPT-4o fails to understand the switch from the video game “Steam”, “GTA” to the scientific terminologies “G”, “T”, “A” that make up DNA. Typically, “steam” refers to a game platform, and “GTA” refers to the game series “Grand Theft Auto”. The joke uses a pun on words as “steam” in its literal sense means water vapor, and “GTA” can represent not only the video game, but guanine, thymine, and adenine, which are nucleotides involved in the structure of DNA. These kinds of jokes require LLMs to identify puns, and reason on the association of the multiple meanings. In addition, such a process requires LLMs to bridge the logic gap between these terms, such as “steam” and “GTA”, and an unusual context, like “water is DNA”. The overall process is particularly challenging, involving scientific knowledge and creative thinking which LLMs still struggle with.

**Parsing Error.**

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Example</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) 小王<u>订了张飞去北京的机票</u>，给<u>张飞</u>省了一大笔钱。<br><br>
(en) Xiaowang <u>booked an airline ticket to Beijing, saving Zhang Fei</u> a lot of money.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Correct<br>Humor<br>Explanation</strong></td>
<td>
There are two ways to parse the first half of the sentence:<br>
(1) 小王/订了/张/飞去/北京的/机票<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;XiaoWang/ booked/ a/ ticket to fly to Beijing.<br>
(2) 小王/订了/张飞/去北京的/机票<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;XiaoWang / booked/ Zhangfei/ a ticket/ to Beijing.<br><br>
Typically, people would interpret in the first way as Zhangfei is a fictional figure and do not appear in the daily conversation. However, the second half of the sentence confirms that the second way of parsing turns out to be correct. Such contrast is hilarious.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>GPT-4o’s<br>Answer</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) …<u>由于历史人物张飞已经不在世</u>, 所以给他省了一大笔钱。<br><br>
(en) … <u>since the historical figure Zhang Fei is dead and cannot take a flight</u>, the joke humorously suggests that he saved a lot of money.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Failure<br>Reasons</strong></td>
<td>
Fail to parse textual elements in a sentence dynamically.
</td>
</tr>
</table>

LLMs cannot parse certain elements in the sentence in more than one way at a time, therefore failing to explain jokes that require different parsing for the same sentence. In this example, the humor hinges on the ambiguity of the phrase “张飞”, which can be interpreted either as part of the verb phrase implying “a ticket flying to Beijing” or as a proper noun, referring to the historical figure Zhang Fei. There is great flexibility in how Chinese characters form a word, as each Chinese character can serve independently as a word, and combinations of these characters can also forge new words or phrases. There are decades of research studying the problem of parsing Chinese (Sun and Jurafsky, 2004; Sun et al., 2009). Recently, researchers have proposed task-specific tokenization approaches that adapt the parsing process to better align with downstream tasks (Liu et al., 2021, 2023b). However, how to incorporate different ways of parsing at one time still remains challenging.

**Cross-lingual Humor.**
