“complicated characters”. However, it is difficult for LLMs to reason such graphemic differences as there are no explicit connections between the textual meaning and visual representations of the glyphs.

## 5 Conclusion

We present *Chumor*, a Chinese humor understanding dataset that includes intellectually challenging and culturally specific humor in Chinese. We have shown that *Chumor* is challenging even for the two state-of-the-art LLMs and provided analysis of their failure cases. We hope that *Chumor* can facilitate non-English humor research and the research on enhancing LLMs’ reasoning abilities for diverse cultural backgrounds.

## Limitations

Due to the time consumption and availability of native Chinese speakers, we did not include a large-scale preference annotation. We encourage future research on collecting large-scale preference data, especially for non-English languages. Moreover, humor is highly subjective, therefore a large-scale preference annotation may also benefit the models (Deng et al., 2023). However, we want to stress the high quality of our preference data annotations, as all of our annotators are native Chinese speakers and hold at least a bachelor’s degree or are involved in bachelor’s programs. We also encourage future research on comprehensive evaluation of LLMs’ humor understanding abilities, especially open-source LLMs’ humor understanding abilities. In the meantime, we want to stress that our research focuses primarily on revealing how humor understanding remains challenging even for the SOTA LLMs. Our work shows that along with many other problems (Ignat et al., 2024), humor understanding, especially non-English and culturally specific humor understanding, remains an unsolved problem in the LLM era. We hope *Chumor* can contribute to non-English humor understanding evaluations for future multi-lingual LLMs.

## Ethics Statement

We tried our best to filter out the excessively offensive content in RZB. However, due to the subjective nature of humor, some of our jokes may be considered offensive to certain people due to different standards. Therefore, we recommend researchers to use *Chumor* with cultural sensitivity and an understanding that the jokes reflect the sociocultural context in which they were created. We encourage users of *Chumor* to maintain caution when working with the dataset, and to be mindful of the potential for offense or harm, especially when using the dataset for research or applications involving diverse audiences or sensitive domains. We provide some potential usages of *Chumor* in Appendix G. We wish to foster an ethical and responsible approach to data collection and usage, and we welcome constructive feedback from the research community and stakeholders to continually improve *Chumor* and mitigate potential harm.

## 6 Acknowledgement

The GPT-4o experiments are supported by the credit from OpenAI through OpenAI Researcher Access. We appreciate the review and feedback from Sheng Zhang.

## References

Yuelin Bai, Xinrun Du, Yiming Liang, Yonggang Jin, Ziqiang Liu, Junting Zhou, Tianyu Zheng, Xincheng Zhang, Nuo Ma, Zekun Wang, et al. 2024. Coig-cqia: Quality is all you need for chinese instruction fine-tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.18058.

Dario Bertero and Pascale Fung. 2016. Deep learning of audio and language features for humor prediction. In Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’16), pages 496–501, Portorož, Slovenia. European Language Resources Association (ELRA).

Santiago Castro, Devamanyu Hazarika, Verónica Pérez-Rosas, Roger Zimmermann, Rada Mihalcea, and Soujanya Poria. 2019. Towards multimodal sarcasm detection (an \_Obviously\_ perfect paper). In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 4619–4629, Florence, Italy. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Lei Chen and Chong Min Lee. 2017. Predicting audience’s laughter during presentations using convolutional neural network. In Proceedings of the 12th Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 86–90, Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yuyan Chen, Zhixu Li, Jiaqing Liang, Yanghua Xiao, Bang Liu, and Yunwen Chen. 2023. Can pre-trained language models understand chinese humor? In Proceedings of the Sixteenth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining, WSDM ’23, page 465–480, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.
