## A Contributions

**Idea Proposal.** Naihao Deng proposed the high-level idea of constructing a humor understanding benchmark sourced from RZB data.

**Background Survey.** Ruiqi He surveyed the humor-related tasks.

**Data Processing.** Ruiqi He crawled and processed the jokes from RZB.

**Annotation.** Ruiqi He annotated the explanations for the RZB jokes. Yushu He, Longju Bai, Jiarui Liu, Zhenjie Sun, Zhenghao Tang, He Wang, Naihao Deng conducted the preference annotations.

**Experiments.** Hanchen Xia conducted experiments to prompt ERNIE-Bot, Naihao Deng conducted experiments to prompt GPT-4o.

**Result Aggregation.** Ruiqi He, Naihao Deng, Yushu He aggregated the results.

**Paper Writing.** Ruiqi He and Naihao Deng drafted the paper. Other authors provided revisions and feedback on the paper.  
Naihao Deng organized the research.

## B Dataset Comparison

Table 2 provides a comprehensive overview of the existing datasets related to humor. We note that *Chumor* is the first humor explanation dataset in Chinese.

## C Agreement Rate Calculation

We calculate the percentage agreement rate among annotators who annotate their preferences between explanations from LLMs and humans. The results showed an average inter-annotator agreement of 61.92% for GPT-4o and 60.86% for ERNIE Bot. Considering the inherent subjectivity of humor interpretation tasks (Deng et al., 2023), we consider that the combined average agreement percentage of 61.38% is decent.

## D Annotation Instructions for Preference Annotation

We include the following instructions for the preference annotations of the joke explanations:  
“在这个标注中，你将会看到一个笑话和对这个笑话的幽默之处的两个解释，请你比较哪个解释更好的解释了这个笑话的幽默之处，并从以下三个标签中选择:  
1. 解释1  
2. 解释2  
3. 一样好”  
which translates to,  
“In this annotation task, you will see a joke along with two explanations of its humor. Please compare which explanation better explains the reason why this joke is funny and choose from the following three labels:  
1. Explanation 1  
2. Explanation 2  
3. Both are equally good.”

For each example, we randomly assign the explanations from the LLM and the human as Explanation 1 and Explanation 2 to ensure a fair comparison.

## E More Error Cases

We note that many examples here encompass multiple error types, which demonstrates *Chumor*’s complexity.

**Insufficient Contextual Understanding.**

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>Example</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) 真可怕，犯罪嫌疑人就在 <strong>我们之中</strong>, 被告席上一名法警对另一名法警说。<br><br>
(en) “Terrifying, the criminal suspect is <strong>right between the two of us,</strong>” said one bailiff to another in the defendant's dock.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Correct<br>Humor<br>Explanation</strong></td>
<td>“between us” can refer to “either one of us” or literally means the actual physical position.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>GPT-4o’s<br>Answer</strong></td>
<td>
(zh) ...暗示他们自己可能是犯罪嫌疑人...<br><br>
(en) ...it suggests the bailiffs themselves might be criminal suspects...
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Failure<br>Reasons</strong></td>
<td>Fail to address the literal meaning.</td>
</tr>
</table>

LLMs may fail to ground their responses to the context when they explain the joke. For instance, in this example, “between us” typically means “either you or me”, but it also has the literal meaning to indicate the person standing “between us”, which is the right interpretation given that the two bailiffs are talking about the criminal. However, GPT-4o only reasons that “the criminal is either you or me” but fails to capture the literal meaning from the context. We hypothesize that in the pre-training corpus, “between us” most likely acquires the meaning of “either you or me” rather than the literal meaning in a scenario like this, which biases the LLM to not
