Yang Liu, Dan Iter, Yichong Xu, Shuohang Wang, Ruochen Xu, and Chenguang Zhu. 2023c. G-eval: NLG evaluation using gpt-4 with better human alignment. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2511–2522, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2005. Making computers laugh: Investigations in automatic humor recognition. In Proceedings of Human Language Technology Conference and Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 531–538, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Arjun Panickssery, Samuel R Bowman, and Shi Feng. 2024. Llm evaluators recognize and favor their own generations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.13076.

Peter Potash, Alexey Romanov, and Anna Rumshisky. 2017. SemEval-2017 task 6: #HashtagWars: Learning a sense of humor. In Proceedings of the 11th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2017), pages 49–57, Vancouver, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Dragomir Radev, Amanda Stent, Joel Tetreault, Aasish Pappu, Aikaterini Iliakopoulou, Agustin Chanfreau, Paloma de Juan, Jordi Vallmitjana, Alejandro Jaimes, Rahul Jha, and Robert Mankoff. 2016. Humor in collective discourse: Unsupervised funniness detection in the new yorker cartoon caption contest. In Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’16), pages 475–479, Portorož, Slovenia. European Language Resources Association (ELRA).

Chhavi Sharma, Deepesh Bhageria, William Scott, Srinivas PYKL, Amitava Das, Tanmoy Chakraborty, Viswanath Pulabaigari, and Björn Gambäck. 2020. SemEval-2020 task 8: Memotion analysis- the visuo-lingual metaphor! In Proceedings of the Fourteenth Workshop on Semantic Evaluation, pages 759–773, Barcelona (online). International Committee for Computational Linguistics.

Honglin Sun and Daniel Jurafsky. 2004. Shallow semantic parsing of Chinese. In Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: HLT-NAACL 2004, pages 249–256, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jiao Sun, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Shereen Oraby, Alessandra Cervone, Tagyoung Chung, Jing Huang, Yang Liu, and Nanyun Peng. 2022. ExPUNations: Augmenting puns with keywords and explanations. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 4590–4605, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Weiwei Sun, Zhifang Sui, Meng Wang, and Xin Wang. 2009. Chinese semantic role labeling with shallow parsing. In Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1475–1483, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yuen-Hsien Tseng, Wun-Syuan Wu, Chia-Yueh Chang, Hsueh-Chih Chen, and Wei-Lun Hsu. 2020. Development and validation of a corpus for machine humor comprehension. In Proceedings of the Twelfth Language Resources and Evaluation Conference, pages 1346–1352, Marseille, France. European Language Resources Association.

Benyou Wang, Xiang Wu, Xiaokang Liu, Jianquan Li, Prayag Tiwari, and Qianqian Xie. 2022. Can language models make fun? a case study in chinese comical crosstalk. In Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics.

Orion Weller and Kevin Seppi. 2020. The rJokes dataset: a large scale humor collection. In Proceedings of the Twelfth Language Resources and Evaluation Conference, pages 6136–6141, Marseille, France. European Language Resources Association.

Jiaming Wu, Hongfei Lin, Liang Yang, and Bo Xu. 2021. Mumor: A multimodal dataset for humor detection in conversations. In Natural Language Processing and Chinese Computing: 10th CCF International Conference, NLPCC 2021, Qingdao, China, October 13–17, 2021, Proceedings, Part I, page 619–627, Berlin, Heidelberg. Springer-Verlag.

Yufan Wu, Yinghui He, Yilin Jia, Rada Mihalcea, Yulong Chen, and Naihao Deng. 2023. Hi-ToM: A benchmark for evaluating higher-order theory of mind reasoning in large language models. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, pages 10691–10706, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Diyi Yang, Alon Lavie, Chris Dyer, and Eduard Hovy. 2015. Humor recognition and humor anchor extraction. In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2367–2376, Lisbon, Portugal. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Dongyu Zhang, Heting Zhang, Xikai Liu, Hongfei Lin, and Feng Xia. 2019. Telling the whole story: A manually annotated chinese dataset for the analysis of humor in jokes. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.

Min Zhang, Jianfeng He, Taoran Ji, and Chang-Tien Lu. 2024a. Don’t go to extremes: Revealing the excessive sensitivity and calibration limitations of llms in implicit hate speech detection.

Tianyi Zhang, Faisal Ladhak, Esin Durmus, Percy Liang, Kathleen McKeown, and Tatsunori B. Hashimoto. 2024b. Benchmarking Large Language Models for News Summarization. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 12:39–57.
