Yuyan Chen, Yichen Yuan, Panjun Liu, Dayiheng Liu, Qinghao Guan, Mengfei Guo, Haiming Peng, Bang Liu, Zhixu Li, and Yanghua Xiao. 2024. Talk funny! a large-scale humor response dataset with chain-of-humor interpretation. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 38(16):17826–17834.

Naihao Deng, Zhenjie Sun, Ruiqi He, Aman Sikka, Yulong Chen, Lin Ma, Yue Zhang, and Rada Mihalcea. 2024. Tables as images? exploring the strengths and limitations of llms on multimodal representations of tabular data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.12424.

Naihao Deng, Xinliang Zhang, Siyang Liu, Winston Wu, Lu Wang, and Rada Mihalcea. 2023. You are what you annotate: Towards better models through annotator representations. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, pages 12475–12498, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Xinrun Du, Zhouliang Yu, Songyang Gao, Ding Pan, Yuyang Cheng, Ziyang Ma, Ruibin Yuan, Xingwei Qu, Jiaheng Liu, Tianyu Zheng, et al. 2024. Chinese tiny llm: Pretraining a chinese-centric large language model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.04167.

Tomas Engelthaler and Thomas T Hills. 2018. Humor norms for 4,997 english words. Behavior research methods, 50:1116–1124.

Jinlan Fu, See-Kiong Ng, Zhengbao Jiang, and Pengfei Liu. 2023. Gptscore: Evaluate as you desire. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04166.

Marc Gelkopf et al. 2011. The use of humor in serious mental illness: A review. Evidence-Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine, 2011.

Hamideh Ghanadian, Isar Nejadgholi, and Hussein Al Osman. 2023. ChatGPT for suicide risk assessment on social media: Quantitative evaluation of model performance, potentials and limitations. In Proceedings of the 13th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment, & Social Media Analysis, pages 172–183, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Md Kamrul Hasan, Wasifur Rahman, AmirAli Bagher Zadeh, Jianyuan Zhong, Md Iftekhar Tanveer, Louis-Philippe Morency, and Mohammed (Ehsan) Hoque. 2019. UR-FUNNY: A multimodal language dataset for understanding humor. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 2046–2056, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jack Hessel, Ana Marasović, Jena D. Hwang, Lillian Lee, Jeff Da, Rowan Zellers, Robert Mankoff, and Yejin Choi. 2023. Do androids laugh at electric sheep? humor “understanding” benchmarks from the new yorker caption contest. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 688–714, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, and Michael Gamon. 2019. “president vows to cut \<taxes> hair”: Dataset and analysis of creative text editing for humorous headlines. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages 133–142, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Oana Ignat, Zhijing Jin, Artem Abzaliev, Laura Biester, Santiago Castro, Naihao Deng, Xinyi Gao, Aylin Ece Gunal, Jacky He, Ashkan Kazemi, Muhammad Khalifa, Namho Koh, Andrew Lee, Siyang Liu, Do June Min, Shinka Mori, Joan C. Nwatu, Veronica Perez-Rosas, Siqi Shen, Zekun Wang, Winston Wu, and Rada Mihalcea. 2024. Has it all been solved? open NLP research questions not solved by large language models. In Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024), pages 8050–8094, Torino, Italia. ELRA and ICCL.

Herbert M Lefcourt. 2001. Humor: The psychology of living buoyantly. Springer Science & Business Media.

Zefeng Li, Hongfei Lin, Liang Yang, Bo Xu, and Shaowu Zhang. 2022. Memeplate: A chinese multimodal dataset for humor understanding in meme templates. In Natural Language Processing and Chinese Computing, pages 527–538, Cham. Springer International Publishing.

Hanmeng Liu, Ruoxi Ning, Zhiyang Teng, Jian Liu, Qiji Zhou, and Yue Zhang. 2023a. Evaluating the logical reasoning ability of chatgpt and gpt-4. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03439.

Siyang Liu, Naihao Deng, Sahand Sabour, Yilin Jia, Minlie Huang, and Rada Mihalcea. 2023b. Task-adaptive tokenization: Enhancing long-form text generation efficacy in mental health and beyond. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 15264–15281, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Xin Liu, Baosong Yang, Dayiheng Liu, Haibo Zhang, Weihua Luo, Min Zhang, Haiying Zhang, and Jinsong Su. 2021. Bridging subword gaps in pretrain-finetune paradigm for natural language generation. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 6001–6011, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
