[Figure: Diagram illustrating the UNPIE benchmark with three tasks: “1. Pun Grounding,” “2. Pun Disambiguation,” and “3. Pun Reconstruction,” using the pun sentence “Success comes in cans, failure comes in can’t’s,” a “Yes I Can” can image, and translation/disambiguation examples.]

Figure 2: The UNPIE benchmark comprises three multimodal tasks: 1. Identifying the specific phrase in an English sentence that constitutes a pun, using the provided (a) *pun explanation image*; 2. Choosing the translation of the pun sentence that aligns more closely with the given (b) *pun disambiguator image*; and 3. Reconstructing the English pun sentence from its translated version, aided by the corresponding (a) *pun explanation image*.

modal interpretation.

In this work, we explore model capabilities in *resolving textual ambiguities through visual context*. To this end, we propose Understanding Pun with Image Explanations (🍄 UNPIE), a novel benchmark consisting of 1,000 text-based puns paired with illustrative images that highlight the incongruity within the puns. Additionally, our dataset approaches pun comprehension as a translation task with incomplete information. This method provides a tangible way to measure the often subjective skill of reconstructing puns. Each English pun is accompanied by translations in three different languages—German, French, and Korean—to capture the challenge of reconstructing the puns across diverse linguistic contexts.

We design three tests based on UNPIE to study how models can exploit visual context to aid pun understanding. Figure 2 summarizes the tasks comprising our benchmark. We first consider an English-only task *pun grounding* that challenges machines to identify the specific phrase in a sentence that forms a pun. Next, we formulate a multilingual challenge of *pun disambiguation* where models must choose the translation that best matches the image provided as a pun disambiguator. The final test, *pun reconstruction*, is a comprehensive task where models should recreate the original English pun sentence using a translated version with potentially no ambiguity. For both the pun grounding and reconstruction tasks, we additionally provide the *pun explanation* images as inputs to verify whether models can consider multimodal context when dealing with ambiguous text.

Our comprehensive experiments on UNPIE affirm the presence of multimodal literacy capacity in two model types: monolithic Visual-Language Models and modular Socratic Models. Incorporating visual context consistently improved performance across our three pun comprehension tests. Notably, this improvement was more pronounced in more challenging tasks. Moreover, VLMs performed better than Socratic Models built on simple image captions. The result suggests that detailed visual understanding is necessary in our benchmark. Finally, fine-tuning with a standard multimodal machine translation dataset adversely affects performance in the pun reconstruction task. This degradation aligns with findings from prior studies (Futeral et al., 2023) stating that web-based multimodal translation datasets may not effectively capture visual dependencies.

Overall, our contributions are as follows:

1. 🍄 UNPIE, a novel benchmark for assessing the multimodal literacy capability of visual-language models. UNPIE is built on text with intrinsic ambiguity (puns), guaranteeing the benefit of visual context.

2. Three new tasks posed on the textual puns and the image annotations: pun grounding, disambiguation, and reconstruction.

3. Experimental results verifying multimodal literacy capability of both VLMs and Socratic Models concerning pun understanding.

## 2 Overview of 🍄 UNPIE Benchmark

UNPIE is a new multimodal multilingual benchmark. Its primary aim is to assess machines’ capacity to actively integrate information from visual
