As such, it primarily models lexical ambiguities unique to English, stemming from polysemies or similar surface forms of the language. To enhance its linguistic diversity and applicability, expanding the dataset to include ambiguities inherent in other languages would be beneficial. Such expansion would not only diversify the linguistic challenges in the dataset but also offer deeper insights into how lexical ambiguities manifest differently across various languages and cultures.

Although UNPIE’s size is much larger than that of the previous multimodal literacy dataset that features explicit ambiguities (Futeral et al., 2023), its total size is insufficient for creating a training split suitable for fine-tuning. This limitation stems from the scarcity of puns, which are inherently challenging for humans to create as well and are not readily available in large quantities online. We thus plan to expand the dataset for multilingual puns in the future.

**Ethical Considerations.** UNPIE, constructed using existing English puns, may inadvertently perpetuate cultural biases and stereotypes present within the humor. Although human annotators were instructed to eliminate any puns expressing explicit hatred, subtle biases can still be perpetuated through seemingly innocuous humor.

To address ethical concerns in the data curation process, we confirmed that all human annotators either volunteered willingly or were compensated fairly for their contributions. We defer the details to appendix B.

## Acknowledgment

This work was partly supported by an IITP grant funded by the Korean Government (MSIT) (No. RS-2020-II201361, Artificial Intelligence Graduate School Program (Yonsei University) and RS-2024-00353131) and the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) grant funded by the Korea government (MSIT) (No. RS-2024-00354218).

## References

Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc, Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson, Karel Lenc, Arthur Mensch, Katherine Millican, Malcolm Reynolds, et al. 2022. Flamingo: a visual language model for few-shot learning. *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, 35:23716–23736.

Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Shusheng Yang, Shijie Wang, Sinan Tan, Peng Wang, Junyang Lin, Chang Zhou, and Jingren Zhou. 2023. Qwen-vl: A frontier large vision-language model with versatile abilities. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.12966.*

Satanjeev Banerjee and Alon Lavie. 2005. Meteor: An automatic metric for mt evaluation with improved correlation with human judgments. In *Proceedings of the acl workshop on intrinsic and extrinsic evaluation measures for machine translation and/or summarization*, pages 65–72.

Loïc Barrault, Fethi Bougares, Lucia Specia, Chiraag Lala, Desmond Elliott, and Stella Frank. 2018. Findings of the third shared task on multimodal machine translation. In *THIRD CONFERENCE ON MACHINE TRANSLATION (WMT18)*, volume 2, pages 308–327.

Rachel Bawden, Rico Sennrich, Alexandra Birch, and Barry Haddow. 2018. Evaluating discourse phenomena in neural machine translation. In *Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers)*, pages 1304–1313.

Romain Beaumont. 2022. Clip retrieval: Easily compute clip embeddings and build a clip retrieval system with them. https://github.com/rom1504/clip-retrieval.

James Betker, Gabriel Goh, Li Jing, Tim Brooks, Jianfeng Wang, Linjie Li, Long Ouyang, Juntang Zhuang, Joyce Lee, Yufei Guo, Wesam Manassra, Prafulla Dhariwal, Casey Chu, Yunxin Jiao, and Aditya Ramesh. 2023. Improving image generation with better captions.

Nitzan Bitton-Guetta, Yonatan Bitton, Jack Hessel, Ludwig Schmidt, Yuval Elovici, Gabriel Stanovsky, and Roy Schwartz. 2023. Breaking common sense: Whoops! a vision-and-language benchmark of synthetic and compositional images. In *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision*, pages 2616–2627.

Delong Chen, Jianfeng Liu, Wenliang Dai, and Baoyuan Wang. 2023. Visual instruction tuning with polite flamingo. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.01003.*

Wei-Lin Chiang, Zhuohan Li, Zi Lin, Ying Sheng, Zhanghao Wu, Hao Zhang, Lianmin Zheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Yonghao Zhuang, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica, and Eric P. Xing. 2023. Vicuna: An open-source chatbot impressing gpt-4 with 90%* chatgpt quality.

Chenhang Cui, Yiyang Zhou, Xinyu Yang, Shirley Wu, Linjun Zhang, James Zou, and Huaxiu Yao. 2023. Holistic analysis of hallucination in gpt-4v (ision): Bias and interference challenges. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.03287.*

Wenliang Dai, Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Anthony Tiong, Junqi Zhao, Weisheng Wang, Boyang Li, Pascale Fung, and Steven Hoi. 2023. InstructBLIP: Towards
