within the pun. Such images are hard to find among natural images due to their complex and sometimes ambivalent meanings. Further, such visual designs are typically proprietary, which contradicts our goal of an open-source dataset. Hence, we resort to creating new images that fit our requirements.

We recruited three NLP researchers to actively prompt the text-to-image generation model DALL-E 3 (Betker et al., 2023) to create images fitting our pun criteria while maintaining a natural appearance. The base text-only dataset provided the puns as data seeds (Miller et al., 2017). While we allow relative freedom in the choice of prompts, the workers reported that DALL-E 3 typically produced satisfactory images with straightforward instructions, as illustrated in Figure 4. Thanks to DALL-E 3’s multi-turn interface, the researchers could request further image revisions if the initial output was unsuitable. On average, $\sim$ 24% samples needed such multi-step modification. We obtained 1000 *pun explanation* images after this process.

**Retrieving Pun Disambiguator Images.** UNPIE offers an alternative visual context: per each pun, we attach two images that describe each meaning of the pun. These images disambiguate the pun and are intended to be used in the binary classification task of pun disambiguation explained in section 3.

As a *pun disambiguator image* is aligned to a single meaning, searching for the required image is easier compared to the *pun explanation images* that require encoding both meanings in the same image. Hence, we opt for image retrieval from the LAION 2B web image-text dataset (Schuhmann et al., 2022) rather than image generation. Using the CLIP (Radford et al., 2021)-based image search API (Beaumont, 2022), we retrieve ten images per the meaning of a pun. Then, we manually select the top one that best fits the description. We discard the whole sample when there is no suitable image. We considered two criteria when selecting the images: first, images that explicitly contain the meaning or the pun word itself as printed text are discouraged as such images reward OCR capability rather than general visual understanding. Second, images with watermarks are filtered out to avoid confusion.

## 2.2 Translating Puns to Multilingual Targets

Evaluating a machine’s ability to understand puns is a complex task. Without a rule-based algorithm to measure this capability, the assessment often relies on human judgment or other machines. However, relying on human evaluation can limit the scalability of the assessment process, while machine-based evaluation, such as using models like GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023), may introduce undesirable biases (Liu et al., 2023c; Hada et al., 2023). To overcome these challenges, we suggest an alternative evaluation method via a downstream task in translation, intentionally aligning with previous research in the field of multimodal machine translation.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th rowspan="2">Model</th>
<th colspan="2">En→Fr<br>Meaning</th>
<th colspan="2">En→De<br>Meaning</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Freq↑</th>
<th>Freq↓</th>
<th>Freq↑</th>
<th>Freq↓</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>GPT4</td>
<td>68.5</td>
<td>75.9</td>
<td>71.2</td>
<td>73.4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>+ Caption</td>
<td>73.4</td>
<td>77.8</td>
<td>74.6</td>
<td>76.6</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

|  | Accuracy (%) | Cohen Kappa ($\kappa$) |
|---|---:|---:|
| GPT4Eval | 78.1 | 0.39 |

Table 2: Experiment on the effect of meaning frequency in puns. Top: division of pun reconstruction task results according to the commonality of meanings. Bottom: assessment of GPT-4-based meaning frequency ordering against an independent dataset with human-annotated meaning frequencies (Rice et al., 2019).

**Translation with Machine Assistance.** We translate the original English pun sentence into three languages (German, French, and Korean). Note that we should ensure that the ambiguity in English does not carry over into the translated targets.

We here design a cooperative framework between machines and humans for pun translation. Per each language pair (*e.g.* En → De), we recruit a bilingual worker whose native language is the target language (*e.g.* De). First, we use off-the-shelf translation models to generate three candidates. Then, the human workers select the best one and make further modifications to finalize the translation. This machine-assisted translation aligns with common practices in the industry (Federico et al., 2012). We chose machine-human cooperation for two reasons: firstly, we saw that our human translators find pun translation difficult. Machine suggestions can serve as starting points here. Secondly, this method expedited the annotation process and reduced costs.

**Addressing Lingering Ambiguity.** Certain cases arise where the ambiguity in the source language is retained in the translated text in literal translation. For example, consider the sentence: “A baseball player was a thief. He was always trying to steal.” The pun in this sentence relies on the dual meanings
