# Can visual language models resolve textual ambiguity with visual cues?  
# Let visual puns tell you!

**Jiwan Chung**  **Seungwon Lim**  **Jaehyun Jeon**  **Seungbeen Lee**  **Youngjae Yu**  
Yonsei University  
jiwan.chung.research@gmail.com

## Abstract

Humans possess *multimodal literacy*, allowing them to actively integrate information from various modalities to form reasoning. Faced with challenges like lexical ambiguity in text, we supplement this with other modalities, such as thumbnail images or textbook illustrations. Is it possible for machines to achieve a similar multimodal understanding capability?

In response, we present *Understanding Pun with Image Explanations* (🥧 UNPIE)<sup>1</sup>, a novel benchmark designed to assess the impact of multimodal inputs in resolving lexical ambiguities. Puns serve as the ideal subject for this evaluation due to their intrinsic ambiguity. Our dataset includes 1,000 puns, each accompanied by an image that explains both meanings. We pose three multimodal challenges with the annotations to assess different aspects of multimodal literacy; Pun Grounding, Disambiguation, and Reconstruction. The results<sup>2</sup> indicate that various Socratic Models and Visual-Language Models improve over the text-only models when given visual context, particularly as the complexity of the tasks increases.

[Figure: two visual pun examples. Left image shows text “Looks like a very serious leak under the sink” above a photo under a sink with a leek. Right image shows “G’RAPH” above a graph-paper style image with a giraffe shaped like a graph.]

Figure 1: Puns naturally occur with images to enhance understanding (Zenner and Geeraerts, 2018), making them natural candidates for testing active multimodal understanding capacity of machines. Examples of puns accompanied by visual explanations from r/puns subreddit on Reddit.

## 1 Introduction

Humans can actively integrate information from multimodal sources without being explicitly told to. For example, a wink can reveal the insincerity behind a statement about dieting. Similarly, visual aids such as Venn diagrams help students understand abstract concepts such as set theory. This active understanding capacity is often denoted as *multimodal literacy* (Mills and Unsworth, 2017).

In contrast, current multimodal models lack this capacity for active understanding and typically operate under two assumptions: (1) all instructions require visual inputs, and (2) these inputs are relevant (Cui et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2024). Such limitations hinder their applicability in real-world scenarios, such as summarizing long blog posts, where irrelevant images must be excluded, and only contextually significant visuals should be used to enhance the understanding of disparate text segments.

An essential component of multimodal literacy is the ability to resolve multimodal ambiguities effectively, which refers to the capacity to disambiguate conflicting or unclear information in modality with information from another modality (Kottur et al., 2021; Guo et al., 2022). Owing to its explicit requirement of multimodal information gathering, disambiguation can serve as a controlled benchmark for evaluating multimodal literacy.

Puns stand as a unique challenge within ambiguity modeling. They are *intrinsically ambiguous* and understanding a pun requires grasping multiple interpretations of a single phrase or word simultaneously. Understanding puns can be difficult even for humans, often necessitating visual cues to clarify the intended interpretation, as demonstrated in Figure 1. Compared to verbose textual explanations, visual cues can deliver instant insight, preserving the humor and cleverness of the pun (Morreall, 1983). Therefore, puns provide an ideal testing ground for assessing models’ capabilities in multi-

<sup>1</sup>Data: huggingface.co/datasets/jiwan-chung/VisualPun_UNPIE  
<sup>2</sup>Code: github.com/JiwanChung/VisualPun_UNPIE

*Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 2452–2469  
November 12-16, 2024 ©2024 Association for Computational Linguistics
