of the text, which did not necessarily correlate with the accurate identification of puns. This resonates with previous reports stating that such text scores are not fully effective outside of their original domain of machine translation (Liu et al., 2016).

Due to the differences in their forms, models found it more challenging to reconstruct heterographic puns than homographic ones. Notably, incorporating visual context in these more complex scenarios led to significant improvements. Furthermore, the benefit of visual context became even more evident when dealing with Korean inputs; a language typically considered more divergent from English than either German or French. This reinforces the idea that machines depend more on visual cues when tackling complex linguistic tasks. Finally, as in the pun disambiguation task, the fine-tuned LLaVA-MMT suffered from a decline in performance compared to the zero-shot LLaVA. This further supports the notion that visual understanding is necessary to handle UNPIE.

## 5 Related Work

**Multimodal Machine Translation.** By integrating backtranslation as a downstream task, UNPIE contributes to the literature on Multimodal Machine Translation (MMT), a widely studied area that extends neural machine translation with additional visual contexts (Specia et al., 2016; Elliott et al., 2017; Barrault et al., 2018). Previous research argues that visual information can help resolve ambiguities in the source text (Li et al., 2022; Hatami et al., 2022). However, the primary dataset for MMT, Multi30K (Elliott et al., 2016), has limited examples of such ambiguities, leading to questions about the use of MMT for assessing multimodal literacy capacity (Elliott, 2018; Wu et al., 2021; Futeral et al., 2023). Another benchmark counteracts this phenomenon with manual annotation (Futeral et al., 2023; Bawden et al., 2018). Nevertheless, this dataset is relatively small (155 samples) due to the difficulty in pinpointing ambiguities within sentences. Additionally, the benchmark is limited to classification models.

**Computational Pun Understanding.** After early research (Ritchie, 2005) pointed out ambiguity as a key in pun generation, numerous studies have investigated automatic pun generation regarding heterographic puns, which slackens the surface form identity requirement for each meaning of the pun (He et al., 2019; Yu et al., 2020; Mittal et al., 2022). Other research explored homographic pun generation which is based on multiple meanings of a polysemous word (Yu et al., 2018; Luo et al., 2019; Tian et al., 2022). Recently, Sun *et al.* (Sun et al., 2022) extended the pun generation problem to consider contextual cues. We extend this line of research with multimodal understanding.

**Visual-Language Models.** The field has seen rapid growth since Flamingo (Alayrac et al., 2022) illustrated the advantages of applying large language models to the visual domain. BLIP-2 (Li et al., 2023), utilizing the OPT language model (Zhang et al., 2022), made significant strides in image captioning. The introduction of a stronger language model (Touvron et al., 2023) further enabled prompt-based control of the models. MiniGPT-4 (Zhu et al., 2023) and LLaVA (Liu et al., 2023b) pioneered the field of visual instruction tuning. InstructBLIP (Dai et al., 2023), an extension of BLIP-2, improved its capability to follow instructions more accurately. Further developments in this domain include other models such as LLAMA-Adapter (Zhang et al., 2023) and Qwen-VL (Bai et al., 2023). Our research puts visual language models (VLMs) to the test regarding their multimodal literacy capabilities.

## 6 Conclusion

We introduced 🥧 UNPIE, a new benchmark for the multimodal literacy capability. Based on UNPIE, we craft three tests to measure how machines can utilize visual context to resolve inherent ambiguity in puns. Our findings indicate that machines can indeed leverage visual information to enhance their understanding of text, as shown by their improved performance across all tasks.

However, achieving human proficiency in multimodal literacy is still a challenge. While our results are encouraging, there remains a considerable gap in machine capability to fully grasp and interpret the intricate relationship between text and visuals, particularly in more complex tasks like *pun reconstruction*. Therefore, we envision UNPIE as not only a platform for testing but also as a starting point for the development of future multimodal models to actively navigate and integrate information from multiple modalities.

## Limitations and Ethical Considerations

UNPIE, while being a multilingual dataset, is built on the English-only pun corpus (Miller et al., 2017).
