|  | Model | Inputs | Homo | Hetero |
|---|---|---|---:|---:|
| LM | Vicuna | L | 69.4 | 71.2 |
| LM | Qwen-VL | L | 43.8 | 57.8 |
| LM | LLaVA | L | 76.0 | 71.8 |
| LM | GPT-4 | L | 95.4 | 92.0 |
| SM | Vicuna | V + L | 74.6 (↑ 5.2) | 76.6 (↑ 5.4) |
| SM | GPT-4 | V + L | 96.0 (↑ 0.6) | 92.4 (↑ 0.4) |
| VLM | Qwen-VL | V + L | 63.6 **(↑ 19.8)** | 70.8 **(↑ 13.0)** |
| VLM | LLaVA | V + L | 81.8 (↑ 5.8) | 73.0 (↑ 1.2) |
| VLM | GPT-4 | V + L | 97.6 (↑ 2.2) | 94.0 (↑ 2.0) |

Table 4: Results on the pun grounding task. We report the exact match accuracy of the generated pun phrase. ↑ denotes the performance gain from visual context.

difference remains relatively small. Further details can be found in appendix B.

## 3 Task Overview

We pose three multimodal pun understanding tasks on the collected annotations to test models’ capability to use visual context in addressing lexical ambiguity, as illustrated in Figure 2. Each task evaluates different aspects: the easier *Pun Grounding* task can be solved without image input. It is aimed at determining if less advanced models, which might not fully resolve such challenges, can enhance their performance with added visual information. The second task of *pun disambiguation* is designed to necessitate the usage of visual context. Finally, the *pun reconstruction* task replicates a practical multimodal literacy scenario. This task necessitates that models not only use the given translation but also infer or extract the underlying pun meaning that the translation does not explicitly convey, potentially drawing on visual inputs to do so.

**Pun Grounding.** The first step in understanding a pun is to identify it. Our initial task examines whether visual context aids models in identifying pun phrases within sentences. Given the whole English sentence $x^i = [x_0^i, \ldots, x_l^i]$ containing a pun phrase $s^i = [x_k^i, \ldots, x_l^i]$ and its corresponding *pun explanation* image $v_e^i$, the model returns a pun phrase candidate $\bar{s}^i$. Note that while the actual target phrase $s^i$ is part of the full sentence $x^i$, the model’s output $\bar{s}^i$ is not bound by this constraint. We purposefully formulate this task as a sequence-to-sequence problem to facilitate zero-shot evaluation across various baselines. The model’s output is then assessed for exact text match with the actual pun phrase to determine accuracy.

**Pun Disambiguation.** Once models pinpoint a pun’s location, they must then interpret its semantics. Understanding a pun hinges on recognizing the different meanings of the pun phrase, as its humor lies in this ambiguity. In this task, we assess the models’ proficiency in correlating each meaning of the pun with its associated visual context. Given the English sentence $x^i$ and the *pun disambiguator* image $v_d^i$ aligned with one of the meanings constructing the pun, the model should produce a translation of the sentence into a target language (e.g. German $y_{De}^i$). Notably, the translated text should be free of any ambiguity stemming from the pun, closely aligning with the meaning depicted in the provided image. We compare the model-generated translation $\bar{y}_{De}^{i,j}$ with two translation targets $y_{De}^{i,0}, y_{De}^{i,1}$, each corresponding to a different meaning of the pun. The model’s output is considered correct if it more closely resembles the ground-truth translation $y_{De}^{i,j}$ that corresponds to the meaning depicted in the image $v_d^{i,j}$, $j \in 0,1$. Refer to section 4.3 for the implementation details.

**Pun Reconstruction.** The final task is to reconstruct the complete pun sentence. To make the problem deterministic, we provide two types of inputs to the model: a non-English language translation of the original pun sentence that has been clarified of any ambiguities (e.g. German $y_{De}^{i,j}$) and the related *pun explanation* image $v_e^i$. The model then generates an output $\bar{x}$, which we compare with the original English pun sentence $x^i$ to determine if both English sentences encapsulate the same pun. It is a complex task to determine whether two sentences contain the same pun, and we resort to machine-based evaluation with GPT-4 to obtain the binary decision. We verify GPTEval’s validity here using human evaluation in appendix D.

## 4 Experiments on UNPIE benchmark

### 4.1 Models

**LM.** To measure the effectiveness of multimodal modeling, we establish baselines using unimodal text-only language models. We incorporate an open-source model (Vicuna-13B (Chiang et al., 2023)) and the advanced proprietary language model (GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023)). Furthermore, we appropriate a visual-language model, LLaVA, for a text-only scenario by inputting only text prompts without the images. This approach assesses the concept of *multimodal alignment tax* (Chen et al., 2023) in the context of pun interpretation, implying that fine-tuning a model on visual data might
