## A Hyperparameters & Setup

**Models.** In all GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023) usage, we use the `gpt-4-0613` endpoint. When conducting experiments with open-source models, we leverage the official implementation codes in conjunction with publicly available weights from the Huggingface Hub (`https://huggingface.co/models`). For our work with the Vicuna (Chiang et al., 2023) language model, we employed the `lmsys/vicuna-7b-v1.5` endpoint. Additionally, for the LLaVA 1.5 13B (Liu et al., 2023a) and Qwen-VL-Chat (Bai et al., 2023) visual-language models, we used the following model parameters: `liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-13b` and `Qwen/Qwen-VL-Chat`, respectively.

**Text Generation.** We use deterministic greedy sampling for all experiments, introducing no randomness or external hyperparameter in the text generation process. Except for GPT-4, all models were allowed to generate up to 200 tokens with the freedom of an early stopping.

**Computational Resources & Fine-tuning.** We used the OpenAI API for inferring GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023) outputs. For open-source models such as Vicuna (Chiang et al., 2023), LLaVA (Liu et al., 2023a), and Qwen-VL-Chat (Bai et al., 2023), we use a single NVIDIA A100 40GB GPU for inference. While the exact inference speed varies depending on the length of prompts and responses, a query takes about $\sim 0.8$ seconds to terminate when utilizing batch processing. Fine-tuning LLaVA was also possible in a single A100 40GB GPU thanks to the efficient LoRA-based implementation (Hu et al., 2021). We trained each translation model for ten epochs in the training split of the Multi30k dataset (Elliott et al., 2016) with early stopping, which took $\sim 20$ hours on average.

## B Data Collection Details

**Generating Pun Explanation Images.** We rely on the DALL-E 3 (Betker et al., 2023) image-to-text model to generate images that explain both meanings of the pun at the same time. DALL-E 3 can be accessed either from the GPT-4 (`https://chat.openai.com/`) or Bing Image Generator (`https://www.bing.com/create`) web interface. Our annotators employed both interfaces.

In contrast to previous studies that employed designers for image generation tasks involving machine-human collaboration (Bitton-Guetta et al., 2023), we chose to recruit three NLP researchers to generate images with DALL-E 3 and curate the outputs. This decision was driven by the necessity for an accurate representation of the puns’ meanings rather than the artistic quality of the images, considering the specific requirements of our research task. The NLP researchers participated voluntarily in this annotation task.

**Translating Puns.** To streamline the translation process while ensuring clarity in meaning, we adopted a machine-assisted translation approach. This method simplifies the task for human annotators, who are required to ensure that the translations clearly reflect the intended meaning of the text. Initially, we provide three machine-generated translation options for the annotators to select and refine. These options are created using GPT-4, which we prompt in two distinct ways, and DeepL (`https://www.deepl.com/translator`), a proprietary translation service.

Human annotators then use these machine-provided translations as a base to craft the final version of the translated pun sentence, as depicted in the user interface shown in Figure 5. For each of the three target languages (German, French, and Korean), we engaged a native speaker who is also proficient in English, ensuring both linguistic accuracy and fidelity to the original pun’s meaning. The extent for how much the translations written by human annotators were drifted from unconditional translation is reported in Table 7. We pay each annotator 12–15$ per hour. We have received approval from the university department and conducted data collection.

## C Testing the Validity of BERTScore

In the Pun Disambiguation task, we require the models to generate the disambiguated text. Thus, we need an automatic algorithm to decide whether the generated output aligns with the intended pun meaning. We formulate this as a text-only problem of matching the output with the ground-truth disambiguated translation result.

We consider various options here: three translation metrics (Bleu, METEOR, and Rouge-L) and two model-based metrics (BERTScore (Zhang et al., 2019) and GPT-based Evaluation). Note that GPTEval here does not receive images as inputs following the other options. Given the generation output of a VLM (LLaVA) or a Socratic Model (GPT4), we ask human annotators for a ternary classification: Match, No Match, and Invalid. A
