<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th rowspan="2">Model</th>
<th rowspan="2">Inputs</th>
<th colspan="3">En → De</th>
<th colspan="3">En → Fr</th>
<th colspan="3">En → Ko</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Homo</th>
<th>Hetero</th>
<th>All</th>
<th>Homo</th>
<th>Hetero</th>
<th>All</th>
<th>Homo</th>
<th>Hetero</th>
<th>All</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Random</td>
<td></td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
<td>50.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2">SM</td>
<td>Vicuna</td>
<td>V + L</td>
<td>59.4</td>
<td>64.4</td>
<td>61.9</td>
<td>61.4</td>
<td><u>72.2</u></td>
<td>66.8</td>
<td>55.4</td>
<td>55.2</td>
<td>55.3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>GPT-4</td>
<td>V + L</td>
<td><strong>68.2</strong></td>
<td><strong>74.6</strong></td>
<td><strong>71.4</strong></td>
<td><strong>69.0</strong></td>
<td><strong>76.8</strong></td>
<td><strong>72.9</strong></td>
<td><strong>65.4</strong></td>
<td><strong>66.2</strong></td>
<td><strong>65.8</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="3">VLM</td>
<td>Qwen-VL</td>
<td>V + L</td>
<td>60.7</td>
<td>64.4</td>
<td>62.6</td>
<td>61.7</td>
<td>71.4</td>
<td>66.5</td>
<td>55.4</td>
<td><u>57.2</u></td>
<td>56.3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>LLaVA</td>
<td>V + L</td>
<td><u>65.1</u></td>
<td><u>70.8</u></td>
<td><u>68.0</u></td>
<td>61.1</td>
<td>70.6</td>
<td>65.8</td>
<td><u>58.1</u></td>
<td>56.9</td>
<td><u>57.5</u></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>LLaVA-MMT</td>
<td>V + L</td>
<td>63.5</td>
<td>68.0</td>
<td>65.7</td>
<td><u>64.1</u></td>
<td>70.0</td>
<td><u>67.0</u></td>
<td>56.6</td>
<td>56.1</td>
<td>56.4</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 5: Experimental results on the pun disambiguation task. All scores are reported in terms of binary classification accuracy. The best scores are **bolded** and the second-best ones are <u>underlined</u>.

impair its original linguistic capabilities. We do not test LM baselines against *pun disambiguation* as the task necessitates visual context.

**SM (Socratic Models).** SM (Zeng et al., 2022), also called pipelining (Bitton-Guetta et al., 2023), is a two-staged framework extending text-only LMs to multimodal tasks by first encoding the multimodal context to textual descriptions. To implement SMs, we employ the same language models as previously mentioned and use BLIP-2 OPT 2.7B (Li et al., 2023) as the visual description generator to encode the images into textual captions.

**VLM.** Monolithic visual-language models directly take the raw images and user queries as inputs to produce textual responses. We employ two popular and high-performing VLMs for this purpose: LLaVA 1.5 13B (Liu et al., 2023a) and Qwen-VL-Chat 7B (Bai et al., 2023). (We refer to Qwen-VL-Chat as Qwen-VL in result tables due to space constraints.) For the tasks of *pun disambiguation* and *pun reconstruction*, we also introduce a machine translation baseline. We thus fine-tune LLaVA with the Multi30k multimodal machine translation dataset (Elliott et al., 2016), yielding the LLaVA-MMT variant. We choose LoRA (Hu et al., 2021) over full fine-tuning for efficient implementation.

## 4.2 Do Images Help Pun Grounding?

**Metrics.** We report accuracy based on the equality of the model-estimated pun phrase and the ground-truth pun phrase. To check the equality, we use the exact match of the surface text form and report the accuracy of the outputs.

**Results.** As anticipated, the incorporation of visual context led to a consistent improvement in pun grounding performance across all models, including Socratic Models and Visual-Language Models (refer to Table 4). Also, GPT-4, a stronger model, could solve the task even without visual context, verifying our original intention of proposing this task to test the helpfulness of visuals where the task is straightforward but the models are less capable. For evaluation fairness, we employed a standard prompt template across all models (details in appendix E). Note that while careful prompt engineering can further improve the scores, our findings focus on understanding the role of visual context in realistic scenarios rather than extracting the maximum potential from each model.

## 4.3 Can VLMs Disambiguate with Images?

**Metrics.** We conduct a generative evaluation for the pun disambiguation test. The task for the machines is to translate a given pun sentence into a target language, using the accompanying image as a guide to disambiguate the meaning of the pun phrase. In this generative test, the model generates a sequence of text, which is then evaluated against two potential translation targets. The model’s output is considered accurate if it aligns more closely with the translation that corresponds to the context of the provided image. We use BERTScore (Zhang et al., 2019) to measure the text similarity following the human evaluation results in appendix C.

**Results.** All the considered baselines have demonstrated their ability to disambiguate translation outputs based on visual context, as illustrated in Table 5. Both strengthening the language model (Vicuna *vs.* GPT-4) and improving visual context processing (Vicuna with image captions from BLIP-2 *vs.* LLaVA) led to more accurate disambiguation. Still, comprehending puns in the textual form was a more decisive factor for pun disambiguation than a stronger visual understanding, as GPT-4 with image captions outperforms all other models. Interestingly, fine-tuning with the Multi30k multi-
