[Figure: two stacked line charts of Mean Funniness Grade versus Story ID (1–30). Top chart story groups labeled Snoring, Scuba Diving, Batman, Beauty Contest, Valentine’s Day, Cats, Ducks, Telephone Tapping, Facebook, Advertising. Bottom chart story groups labeled Telephone Tapping, Valentine’s Day, Batman, Facebook, Ducks, Beauty Contest, Cats, Snoring, Scuba Diving, Advertising. Legend entries: MLM, FT_US, Yoda_US, FT_IN, Yoda_IN.]

Figure 2: MFG for the 30 test stories (top: IN, bottom: US) using the three approaches graded by US judges.

being US judgements on US-written stories for deviation), though IN judges find IN-generated humor to be somewhat coherent (0.22). Certain skilled turkers are able to write meaningful and coherent stories, something that the YodaLib approach finds very difficult to achieve.

## 6.2 Qualitative Analysis

Figure 2 shows MFG for stories via the three approaches by IN and US judges respectively. We sort the story titles in decreasing order of MFG. FT consistently outperforms MLM. YodaLib outperforms FT for 28 and 23 stories for IN and US judges respectively. The average gains are 0.79 and 0.46 for IN judges, and 0.17 and 0.37 for US judges, for IN- and US-generated stories respectively. Hence, an average IN judge, though also prefers coherence, finds stories with low coherence and high incongruity and deviation also funny; as these are further incorporated in YodaLib stories, the gains in IN judgements are higher. Contrarily, US judges prefer coherence along with incongruity: the highest MFG by IN judges are for YodaLib stories (e.g., *Snoring*, *Scuba Diving*, *Batman*); those by US judges are for FT stories (e.g., *Batman*, *Snoring*, *Scuba Diving*). It is interesting that the original Mad Libs game introduced humor primarily via incongruous words to fill the stories, while coherence plays an important role in this study, possibly due to the richness of the task in considering the context to fill-in the blanks.

Table 5 shows example story snippets where YodaLib stories receive higher MFG than FT stories. Humor in the YodaLib stories is largely via incongruity (e.g., *advertisement to grill people*, *Valentine’s Day is a prank*). Yet, the YodaLib approach is also able to generate small snippets of coherent and funny phrases: <u>Advertising</u> is how a company <u>grills people</u> to buy their products, it can bring <u>sickness</u> and funny <u>grim</u>; Valentine’s Day is a <u>prank</u> to show <u>mischief</u>, when lovers show their <u>crush</u> to each other; Batman is an <u>abusive</u> superhero, a fiery child, and grew up learning different ways to <u>glare</u> (from Table 6).

We note that similar to the observation in (Hossain et al., 2017), when humans write funnier stories, they do so by incorporating more coherence. Table 6 shows a US-written FT story with high MFG from US judges (IN judges often give higher grades to YodaLib stories). The US turker portrays Batman as a bland and an uninteresting person who is weak, cowardly and moronic, living in a disconcerted city of Gotham. Humor is generated by portraying the title concepts consistently with surprising and
