We use the above augmented dataset to fine-tune FunnyBERT, a BERT-framework based sentence humor classifier that, accounting for the desired country of the audience, is able to identify whether content is humorous or not. Specifically, we fine-tune BERT for sentence-pair classification by adding a classification layer, with input pair <masked sentence, filled-in sentence>, and output is the prediction $c \in \{\text{funny}, \text{not funny}\}$ if the input corresponds to a funny transformation. The final hidden vector $h$ corresponding to [CLS] token represents the sequence. The weights $W$ are learnt during fine-tuning; $p(c|h) = \operatorname{softmax}(Wh)$. We use the following parameters: batch size 32, `gelu` activation, sequence length 512, vocabulary 30,522, Adam optimizer, learning rate 1e-5, (selected over 5e-5, 5e-6, 1e-6), and 10 epochs (over 1-100 epochs). The limited sizes of annotated datasets make BERT a suitable framework to build on. FunnyBERT ranks the candidate filled-in sentences based on their humor (softmax probability).

Table 2 shows the location-specific validation accuracies of FunnyBERT. The majority vote baseline accuracy is 50%, as the datasets are class-balanced. Metric-wise statistically significant values are marked with \*.

| Metric | IN | US |
|---|---:|---:|
| Precision (Funny) | 81.48 | 91.16\* |
| Recall (Funny) | 89.02\* | 85.49 |
| F1 score (Funny) | 85.08 | 88.24\* |
| Accuracy | **84.39** | **88.60\*** |
| Accuracy (Wikipedia sentences without modification) | 80.06 | **89.12\*** |

Table 2: Classification validation accuracies of FunnyBERT$_X$, X $\in$ {IN, US} ($p < 0.05$).

The funny-class precision and accuracy are lower, and recall is higher for IN than those for US. This may be due to slightly lower quality funny sentence completions from IN players, resulting in FunnyBERT$_\text{IN}$ predicting false positives in most cases. We suspect that the familiarity of US turkers with Mad Libs was a factor that led to better quality stories for US. Augmenting Wikipedia sentences without location-specific replacements results in a significantly lower accuracy (80.06%) for IN, suggesting that the improved US scores are caused by the biased nature of the pre-training datasets used by BERT toward US English; IN-specific replacements, however minor, lead to improved performances in this locale.

## 4.2 YodaLib for Story Generation

Here we introduce YodaLib, our pipeline for humorous story generation. For a given MadLib-like story, we start out with word candidate selection and ranking, and finalize with story completion.

### 4.2.1 Candidate Selection

In order to generate candidate words for each story blank, the latter are replaced with the BERT [MASK] token and then input to the location-specific MLM. For each mask, probability scores are obtained for all the words in the vocabulary, and we retain the highest ranking $k = 10,000$ words. These are further filtered to obtain a cleaner candidate list, adhering to hint types and other restrictions imposed in the player selection phase; we further ensure that the number and tense match the hint type for nouns and verbs, respectively.

In sentences with multiple masks, we perform left-to-right selection, at each step pruning our decision space to the top $n$ candidates to avoid assessing an exponential number of combinations.

We use FunnyBERT to rank the filled-in sentences (Section 4.2.2), and the top $n = 100$ candidates are chosen to fill each mask. We impose left-to-right candidate selection, as this is how stories are read by turkers. It enhances the overall coherence of the resulting funny sentence, as the previously selected candidates are considered in selecting next ones. For a given context, we expect the candidates with high MLM scores to be good fits and hence less humorous (*cats drink milk*), while those with low scores are more likely to be incongruous, and may generate humor in the given context (*cats prepare milk*).

### 4.2.2 Candidate Ranking

Examining the positions or scores from MLM is not sufficient to predict if candidates are funny substitutes. The second stage involves ranking the candidates for each mask based on their humor contributions to the containing sentences. We leverage the FunnyBERT component by feeding the completed sentences to the model and using the softmax humor probability as a ranking value. The top $n = 100$ sentences are used for candidate selection of the next mask, until all the masks are filled.
