Jennifer Hay. 2000. Functions of humor in the conversations of men and women. *Journal of pragmatics*, 32(6):709–742.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, Lucy Vanderwende, Eric Horvitz, and Henry Kautz. 2017. Filling the blanks (hint: plural noun) for mad libs humor. In *Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 638–647.

Nabil Hossain, John Krumm, and Michael Gamon. 2019. “President vows to cut <taxes> hair”: Dataset and analysis of creative text editing for humorous headlines. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 133–142, Minneapolis, Minnesota, June. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Dirk Hovy. 2015. Demographic factors improve classification performance. In *Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (ACL 2015)*, pages 752–762, Beijing, China.

Barbara Johnstone. 2010. Language and place.

Chloe Kiddon and Yuriy Brun. 2011. That’s what she said: double entendre identification. In *Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies: short papers-Volume 2*, pages 89–94. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Cheris Kramarae. 1981. Women and men speaking: Frameworks for analysis.

Klaus Krippendorff. 1970. Estimating the reliability, systematic error and random error of interval data. *Educational and Psychological Measurement*, 30(1):61–70.

Bill Yuchen Lin, Frank F. Xu, Kenny Zhu, and Seung-won Hwang. 2018. Mining cross-cultural differences and similarities in social media. In *Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 709–719, Melbourne, Australia, July. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Kate Loveys, Jonathan Torrez, Alex Fine, Glen Moriarty, and Glen Coppersmith. 2018. Cross-cultural differences in language markers of depression online. In *Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology: From Keyboard to Clinic*, pages 78–87, New Orleans, LA, June. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava. 2006. Learning to laugh (automatically): Computational models for humor recognition. *Computational Intelligence*, 22(2):126–142.

John Morreall. 2012. Philosophy of humor.

Nasrin Mostafazadeh, Michael Roth, Annie Louis, Nathanael Chambers, and James Allen. 2017. Lsdsem 2017 shared task: The story cloze test. In *Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Linking Models of Lexical, Sentential and Discourse-level Semantics*, pages 46–51.

Dan O’Shannon. 2012. *What are You Laughing At?: A Comprehensive Guide to the Comedic Event.* A&C Black.

Saša Petrović and David Matthews. 2013. Unsupervised joke generation from big data. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)*, volume 2, pages 228–232.

Roger Price and Leonard Stern. 1974. *Mad Libs: World’s Greatest Party Game: a Do-it-yourself Laugh Kit.* Number 1. Mad Libs.

Yishay Raz. 2012. Automatic humor classification on twitter. In *Proceedings of the 2012 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies: Student Research Workshop*, pages 66–70. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Dawn T Robinson and Lynn Smith-Lovin. 2001. Getting a laugh: Gender, status, and humor in task discussions. *Social Forces*, 80(1):123–158.

Oliviero Stock and Carlo Strapparava. 2002. Hahacronym: Humorous agents for humorous acronyms. *Stock, Oliviero, Carlo Strapparava, and Anton Nijholt. Eds*, pages 125–135.

Margaret E. Tresselt and Mark S. Mayzner. 1964. The Kent-Rosanoff word association: Word association norms as a function of age. *Psychonomic Science*, 1(1-12):65–66.
