## 3 Data Collection

Mad Libs<sup>®</sup> is a fill-in-the-blank game (Price and Stern, 1974) to create funny stories. A Mad Lib is a textual story template consisting of a title and a short story, with some of the words masked. Players are prompted to provide replacement words for the masked entries based on the provided hints (e.g., part-of-speech (POS) tags, *bodypart, food*) without having read the story. The replacement words are then filled in the story; the resulting Mad Lib is usually funny, with the humor aspect coming from the nonsensical filled-in words in an otherwise coherent and sensible story.

We use stories curated by Hossain et al., (2017), namely **Fun Libs**, as (1) Mad Libs are copyrighted and hence it is difficult to release datasets, and (2) experimentation with Fun Libs allows comparison of our approach with that proposed by Hossain et al., (2017).<sup>2</sup> We discard 4 of the 50 Fun Libs, as their themes cater to a US audience,<sup>3</sup> and replace them with 4 new stories we created following the heuristics devised by Hossain et al., (2017).

The data annotation is undertaken by two parties: the players who fill-in the blanks to create funny stories, and the **judges** who assess the filled-in stories in terms of their funniness. We assume the three-stage annotation framework devised by Hossain et al., (2017): *judge selection, player selection* and *story annotation*, with a few revisions to account for location-specific annotations.

**Judge selection.** This is done via a linguistic and a demographic survey. Turker judges from each country are given seven pre-filled stories, three of which are taken directly from Wikipedia, with some words underlined as if they were filled-in words, while the remaining four stories were filled-in by English speakers from the corresponding country, who were instructed to create funny stories. We instruct the judges to select for each story a grade from {0: not funny, 1: slightly funny, 2: moderately funny, 3: funny}. To filter spam responses, verification questions are presented that can be answered only after reading the stories. The task ends with a demographic survey prompting the judges to provide their age group, nationality, gender, education, occupation, and income level.

Selected turkers are those who (i) assign 0 to the Wikipedia stories, a grade from {1, 2, 3} to at least three of the remaining four stories, (ii) answer the story-based questions correctly, and (iii) spend at least 4 minutes to complete the task. 50 US and 43 IN judges are selected from 60 and 100 candidates respectively, ensuring that they are unbiased in judging the funniness of a filled-in story.

**Player selection.** Players are expected to be good at writing funny stories. For this, we obtain four stories from Wikipedia, mask some words, and provide hint types next to them. To avoid excess workload to the turkers (leading to possible filling bias), two tasks are created for each country on AMT, each with two stories and a demographic survey, with instructions to fill the stories to make them funny, and answer the demographic survey. Further instructions are provided: the filled-in words must (i) occur in English dictionary, (ii) have exactly one word written in Latin alphabet, (iii) agree with the provided hint types, and (iv) not be slang words or sexual references, as these lead to shallow humor.

In each country, the filled-in stories are graded on the 0-3 humor scale by 5 qualified judges from that country, to reduce the effect of variations in humor preferences, and be representative of an audience rather than an individual on AMT. Players are selected if their **mean funniness grade** (MFG), mean of the 5 judgements, ≥ 1 for at least one story. 30 IN and 26 US players are selected from 80 and 60 turkers respectively.

**Annotating Fun Libs.** For each story, we ensure that a qualified turker can participate as either a player or a judge but not both. The stories are filled by 3 players from each country following the player selection instructions, and are judged by 5 judges from the same country. The judges rate the overall funniness, coherence, deviation from the story title (on the 0-3 scale), whether incongruity<sup>4</sup> was applied by the player ({Yes, No}), the humor contribution of each filled-in word ({‘funny’, ‘not funny’}), and a verification question. In addition to same country judgements, we also obtain judgements from the opposite country

<sup>2</sup>We limit ourselves to the 50 stories created by Hossain et al., (2017); we believe that ours is the first endeavor in uncovering the demographic-specific idiosyncrasies in humor preferences, and provides motivation for future efforts to collect even larger demographic-specific datasets for humor studies.  
<sup>3</sup>Their titles include *Kim Kardashian, Baseball, Boston Tea Party, The Statue of Liberty*.  
<sup>4</sup>Incongruity is present in a joke if there is a surprise that defies the expectation of the reader (Weems, 2014), therefore causing the content to be funny.
