Table 3 shows the averages of the mean funniness grades MFG (0-3 scale) of the generated stories, in two settings (for MLM and YODA). (1) TOP3: For MLM, we consider top three stories for each Fun Lib. For YODALIB, we consider three stories from BEST10 which have the highest MFG assigned by judges (as all of them have very similar scores assigned by our framework). (2) TOP10: We consider the top 10 (from filled-in word scores) and BEST10 stories for each Fun Lib for MLM and YODALIB respectively.

Humor generated by both FT and YODALIB is preferred to that by MLM, by both IN and US judges. This is expected, as MLM fills the stories with more plausible words, and hence does not introduce any surprise aspect that is essential for humor. The average MFG for MLM increases in the TOP10 setting, confirming that stories become more humorous as more incongruous words are used to fill them. In the FT stories, both IN and US judges prefer US-written humor (1.57, 1.41) to IN-written humor (1.17, 1.39). On the other hand, IN-written humor is liked more by US judges (1.39), and US-written humor by IN judges (1.57). Hence, an average US turker writes better stories than an average IN turker for Mad Libs, and judges in general enjoy humor written by turkers from a different country more than of their countrymen. This is in contrast to the general expectation that people prefer humor originated from their own group due to a better understanding of the various location-specific subtleties, suggesting that seeing things in a new light possibly contributes to the surprise and creativity factors essential for humor generation.

In the YODALIB approach, US-written humor is preferred to IN-written humor by both IN (2.03, 1.70) and US (1.77, 1.48) judges, in both settings. This may be due to the better performance of FunnyBERT$_{\mathrm{US}}$ in ranking funny transformations to create stories. As seen in the FT approach, US-written stories by turkers are of better quality humor than IN-written ones on average, and this may have led to better quality training datasets for FunnyBERT$_{\mathrm{US}}$. Our YODALIB approach outperforms FT for both IN and US judges (more so in the TOP3 setting for US judges, and both settings for IN judges), indicating that our approach generates better quality humor than AMT players on an average. Our approach also outperforms Libitum (Hossain et al., 2017) in the TOP3 setting. It has an average MFG of 1.51, which is much lower than the 1.77 given by US judges to US-generated humor.[^8]

Both the IN- and US-generated stories in the YODALIB approach are liked more by IN judges than by US judges (underlined in Table 3). This suggests that an average IN turker has a more lenient outlook towards humor, whether it is of IN or US origin, and this may have also led to lower quality IN-written stories, whereas an average US turker has a more stricter perspective towards it, possibly due to the familiarity of the game in US, resulting in the more enjoyable humor from US players.

## 6 Discussion

### 6.1 Quantitative Analysis

Table 4 shows the correlations of coherence, incongruity and deviation with the corresponding MFG for the test stories generated in each approach. The TOP10 stories are used for MLM and YODALIB approaches. In FT, coherence plays an important role in creating humor for same-location audience on AMT (IN: 0.40, US: 0.77), indicating that humans have a striking ability to apply coherence to create humor, and it is particularly appreciated by audience from the same country, possibly due to a consistent use of location-specific information. This can be seen in the US judgements on IN-written humor, where funniness has no correlation with coherence, and high correlation with incongruity, indicating that US judges find those IN-written stories funny which contain seemingly unexpected words.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>METHOD</th>
<th colspan="3">INDIAN JUDGES</th>
<th colspan="3">US JUDGES</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>COH</th>
<th>INC</th>
<th>DEV</th>
<th>COH</th>
<th>INC</th>
<th>DEV</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>FT<sub>IN</sub></td>
<td><strong>0.40</strong></td>
<td>0.25</td>
<td><strong>0.59</strong></td>
<td>0.01</td>
<td><strong>0.68</strong></td>
<td>0.19</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>FT<sub>US</sub></td>
<td>0.23</td>
<td>0.24</td>
<td><strong>0.62</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.77</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.83</strong></td>
<td><strong>-0.59</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>MLM</td>
<td><strong>-0.57</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.74</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.66</strong></td>
<td><strong>-0.64</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.36</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.72</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>YODA<sub>IN</sub></td>
<td><strong>0.22</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.41</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.52</strong></td>
<td>0.15</td>
<td>0.12</td>
<td><strong>0.22</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>YODA<sub>US</sub></td>
<td>0.07</td>
<td><strong>0.27</strong></td>
<td><strong>0.41</strong></td>
<td>0.12</td>
<td><strong>0.27</strong></td>
<td>0.05</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 4: Correlations of coherence (Coh), incongruity (Inc) and deviation (Dev) with MFG, with significant values in **bold** ($p < 0.05$).

In the MLM stories, coherence is negatively correlated with funniness, indicating the difficulty in generating humor via coherent words by a language model. In the YODALIB approach, coherence plays very little role; most of the funniness is achieved via incongruity and topic deviations (the only exception

[^8]: Training and evaluation settings for Libitum are closer to US humor judged by US judges setting (TOP3).
