We also plan to take steps toward understanding what makes textual humor coherent, and go beyond our word and sentence similarity measures to generate more coherent and funny stories.

## Acknowledgments

This material is based in part upon work supported by the National Science Foundation (grant #1815291) and by the John Templeton Foundation (grant #61156). Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation or the John Templeton Foundation. The authors would like to thank the reviewers for their comments.

## References

Dana L Alden, Wayne D Hoyer, and Chol Lee. 1993. Identifying global and culture-specific dimensions of humor in advertising: A multinational analysis. *The Journal of Marketing*, pages 64–75.

Mahadev L Apte. 1985. *Humor and laughter: An anthropological approach.* Cornell Univ Pr.

Salvatore Attardo and Victor Raskin. 1991. Script theory revis (it) ed: Joke similarity and joke representation model. *Humor-International Journal of Humor Research*, 4(3-4):293–348.

Salvatore Attardo. 2010. *Linguistic theories of humor*, volume 1. Walter de Gruyter.

David Bamman, Chris Dyer, and Noah A. Smith. 2014. Distributed representations of geographically situated language. In *Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers) (ACL 2014)*, pages 828–834.

Dario Bertero and Pascale Fung. 2016. A long short-term memory framework for predicting humor in dialogues. In *Proceedings of the 2016 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies*, pages 130–135.

Kim Binsted, Helen Pain, and Graeme D Ritchie. 1997. Children’s evaluation of computer-generated punning riddles. *Pragmatics & Cognition*, 5(2):305–354.

Vladislav Blinov, Valeria Bolotova-Baranova, and Pavel Braslavski. 2019. Large dataset and language model fun-tuning for humor recognition. In *Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 4027–4032, Florence, Italy, July. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)*, pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota, June. Association for Computational Linguistics.

W Jack Duncan, Larry R Smeltzer, and Terry L Leap. 1990. Humor and work: Applications of joking behavior to management. *Journal of Management*, 16(2):255–278.

Penelope Eckert and Sally McConnell-Ginet. 2013. *Language and gender*. Cambridge University Press.

Aparna Garimella and Rada Mihalcea. 2016. Zooming in on gender differences in social media. *PEOPLES 2016*, page 1.

Aparna Garimella, Rada Mihalcea, and James Pennebaker. 2016. Identifying cross-cultural differences in word usage. In *Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on Computational Linguistics: Technical Papers (COLING 2016)*, pages 674–683, Osaka, Japan.

Aparna Garimella, Carmen Banea, and Rada Mihalcea. 2017. Demographic-aware word associations. In *Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 2275–2285.

Lizbeth Goodman. 1992. *Gender and humour*. na.

Md Kamrul Hasan, Wasifur Rahman, Amir Zadeh, Jianyu Zhong, Md Iftekhar Tanveer, Louis-Philippe Morency, et al. 2019. Ur-funny: A multimodal language dataset for understanding humor. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.06618*.
