Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Ilia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you need. In *Advances in neural information processing systems*, pages 5998–6008.

Svitlana Volkova, Theresa Wilson, and David Yarowsky. 2013. Exploring demographic language variations to improve multilingual sentiment analysis in social media. In *Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 2013)*, number October, pages 1815–1827, Seattle, WA, USA.

Scott Weems. 2014. *Ha!: The science of when we laugh and why*. Basic Books (AZ).

Charles Welch, Jonathan Kummerfeld, Veronica Perez-Rosas, and Rada Mihalcea. 2020. Compositional demographic word embeddings. In *Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*.

Julia Wilkins and Amy Janel Eisenbraun. 2009. Humor theories and the physiological benefits of laughter. *Holistic nursing practice*, 23(6):349–354.

Steven Wilson, Rada Mihalcea, Ryan Boyd, and James Pennebaker. 2016. Disentangling topic models: A cross-cultural analysis of personal values through words. In *Proceedings of the First Workshop on NLP and Computational Social Science*, pages 143–152, Austin, Texas, November. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Renxian Zhang and Naishi Liu. 2014. Recognizing humor on twitter. In *Proceedings of the 23rd ACM International Conference on Conference on Information and Knowledge Management*, pages 889–898. ACM.

Yukun Zhu, Ryan Kiros, Rich Zemel, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Raquel Urtasun, Antonio Torralba, and Sanja Fidler. 2015. Aligning books and movies: Towards story-like visual explanations by watching movies and reading books. In *Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision*, pages 19–27.
