This paper makes four main contributions: **(1)** We collect a novel dataset for location-specific humor generation in Mad Lib stories, which we carefully annotate using Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT).<sup>1</sup> **(2)** We propose YODALIB, a location-specific humor generation framework that builds on top of BERT-based (Devlin et al., 2019) components while also accounting for location and story coherence. YODALIB typically generates funnier Mad Lib stories than those created by humans and a previously published semi-automatic framework. **(3)** We present qualitative and quantitative analyses to explain what makes the generated stories humorous, and how they differ from the other completions. **(4)** Finally, we outline the similarities and differences in humor preferences between two countries: India (IN) and United States (US), in terms of certain linguistic attributes. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first computational study to automatically generate humor in a Mad Lib setting while also incorporating the demographic information of the audience, and analyzing its effect in terms of various linguistic dimensions.

## 2 Related Work

There is a long history of research in general theories of humor (Attardo and Raskin, 1991; Wilkins and Eisenbraun, 2009; Attardo, 2010; Morreall, 2012; O’Shannon, 2012; Weems, 2014). In computational linguistics, a large body of humor research involves humor recognition, and it typically focuses on specific types of jokes (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2006; Kiddon and Brun, 2011; Bertero and Fung, 2016; Raz, 2012; Zhang and Liu, 2014; Bertero and Fung, 2016; Hossain et al., 2019). Research work on humor generation has been largely limited to specific joke types and short texts, such as riddles (Binsted et al., 1997), acronyms (Stock and Strapparava, 2002), or one-liners (Petrović and Matthews, 2013). In general, it is very difficult to apply humor theories directly to generate humor, as they require a high degree of commonsense understanding of the world.

Owing to the subjective nature of humor, there have been recent efforts in collecting datasets for humor; Blinov et al., (2019) collected a dataset of jokes and funny dialogues in Russian from various online resources, and complemented them carefully with unfunny texts with similar lexical properties. They developed a fine-tuned language model for text classification with a significant gain over baseline methods. Hasan et al., (2019) introduced the first multimodal language (including text, visual and acoustic modalities) dataset of humor detection, and proposed a framework for understanding and modeling humor in a multimodal setting.

In socio-linguistics, the relationship between humor and gender is widely studied. Hay (2000) found that New Zealand women more often shared funny personal stories to create solidarity, while men used other strategies to achieve the same goal. More recently, location has become central in sociolinguistics (Johnstone, 2010). Alden et al., (1993) indicated that humor styles vary with countries, and humorous communications from Korea, Germany, Thailand and US, had variable content for funny advertising, while sharing certain universal cognitive structures.

The effect of demographic background on language use has gained significant attention in computational linguistics, with several efforts focused on understanding the similarities and differences in the language preferences, opinions and behaviors of people (Garimella et al., 2016; Garimella and Mihalcea, 2016; Wilson et al., 2016; Lin et al., 2018; Loveys et al., 2018; Welch et al., 2020). Conversely, there has been work to leverage these demographic differences in language preferences between various groups, to develop better models for NLP tasks, such as sentiment analysis (Volkova et al., 2013), word representations (Bamman et al., 2014), sentiment, topic and author attribute classification (Hovy, 2015), and word associations (Garimella et al., 2017). However, to our knowledge, none of this recent work accounts for demographic information in humor recognition or generation tasks.

We find inspiration in recent work by Hossain et al., (2017), who collected a humor generation dataset with Mad Lib stories, and proposed a semi-automated approach to aid humans in writing funny stories. We go one step further and propose a fully-automated BERT-based demographic-aware humor generation framework. We further study the influence of location on humor preferences via AMT and seek to emulate such preferences in our automatically generated stories. Our work is similar to (Mostafazadeh et al., 2017), as our goal is to engage readers from different demographic groups by generating funnier versions of stories to read.

<sup>1</sup>We release the location-specific Mad Lib humor dataset `http://lit.eecs.umich.edu/downloads.html`.
