<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Method</th>
      <th colspan="2">IN judges</th>
      <th colspan="2">US judges</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>Top3</th>
      <th>Top10</th>
      <th>Top3</th>
      <th>Top10</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>FT<sub>IN</sub></td>
      <td>1.17<sup>‡</sup></td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td><u>1.39<sup>‡¶</sup></u></td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>FT<sub>US</sub></td>
      <td><u>1.57<sup>*‡</sup></u></td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>1.41<sup>‡</sup></td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>MLM</td>
      <td>0.70</td>
      <td>0.91</td>
      <td>0.68</td>
      <td>0.84</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Yoda<sub>IN</sub></td>
      <td><strong><u>1.94<sup>*†‡¶</sup></u></strong></td>
      <td>1.60<sup>*‡¶</sup></td>
      <td>1.56<sup>*‡</sup></td>
      <td>1.32<sup>‡</sup></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Yoda<sub>US</sub></td>
      <td><strong><u>2.03<sup>*†‡¶</sup></u></strong></td>
      <td><strong><u>1.70<sup>*†‡§¶</sup></u></strong></td>
      <td><strong>1.77<sup>*†‡§</sup></strong></td>
      <td>1.48<sup>*‡§</sup></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Table 3: Average MFG for generated stories. Column-wise significantly higher scores than (i) FT<sub>IN</sub> are marked with *, (ii) FT<sub>US</sub> with †, (iii) MLM with ‡, and (iv) Yoda<sub>IN</sub> with §. Row-wise higher values for each country are marked with ¶ ($p < 0.05$). The highest values in columns/ rows are bold/ underlined.

#### 4.2.3 Story Completion

The final stage of the framework involves forming complete stories from the top funny transformations for each of the component masked sentences. Similar to candidate selection, we consider left-to-right story completion. For a sentence to be appended, it must be classified both as funny and as a potential next sentence given the previously selected context. This allows the resulting stories to be both funny and coherent. For (1), we consider the top-ranked funny transformations for each sentence. For (2), we rank the funny transformations based on their semantic similarity to the sentences previously selected in the story. The top $N = 100$ funny *and similar* transformations are selected for each subsequent sentence, resulting in different variations of the completed story. Only the top $N$ as yet completed stories are advanced after processing each sentence (from $N^2$ sequences), based on the above two scores.

We estimate the similarity between any two transformations as the cosine similarity between their sentence embeddings. We use the average of the word embeddings from location-specific BERT to estimate the sentence embedding. Each word has 12 vectors (from the 12 BERT layers), each of length 768. Different layers of BERT encode different kinds of information, so the appropriate aggregation strategy depends on the task. We consider two variations to obtain the final word vectors: (i) sum of the embeddings from the last 4 hidden layers, and (ii) embeddings from only the second to last hidden layer (Devlin et al., 2019). We settle on the second strategy, as it results in better quality stories for the validation set.[^7] We then sort the stories in decreasing order of their **story funniness score** (mean of funniness scores of the constituting sentences) , as well as according to their **average word coherence** (mean of the pair-wise similarities of filled-in word embeddings).

## 5 Evaluation

We evaluate three methods to write funny stories:

1. **Freetext (FT):** Following directions, AMT players complete the funny stories.
2. **MLM:** Word-replacement for each blank is selected based on the original BERT MLM model (without location-specific training).
3. **YodaLib:** The stories are generated using the proposed framework (see Section 4).

For each of these, we obtain 5 judgements on AMT. For each test Fun Lib, grading is done by judges from both locations on the 3 filled-in stories from FT, and the top 10 stories generated from MLM and YodaLib. We grade more stories generated by YodaLib as: (1) unlike the manually crafted FT stories , these are generated automatically, and hence require minimal effort (once the YodaLib framework is in place), and (2) both story funniness and average word coherence scores for the top 10 stories differ only in the fourth decimal place. Hence we treat them as the best diverse humorous variations generated for the given Fun Libs (Best10). The stories from FT and YodaLib approaches are created in location-specific settings, while MLM does not account for the desired location slant. Stories from MLM are ranked based on their filled-in word probabilities of fitting the corresponding contexts. Hence, we expect the top-ranked MLM stories to be more congruous and less humorous than the low-ranked stories.

[^7]: The quality of stories is determined by human subjects, as this task is subjective.
