for the filled-in test stories, to allow for cross-country analyses. We compare coherence to incongruity and deviation, to understand their effect on humor. The Krippendorff’s alpha (Krippendorff, 1970) values for IN and US are 0.214 and 0.173 respectively, which indicate positive agreements among AMT judges, and are comparable to those obtained by Hossain et al. (2019), who crowd-sourced a dataset of humorous edited news headlines on the same funniness scale. The total AMT cost is about $1,200.

## 4 Automatic Humor Generation Framework

We first describe the location-specific training components, namely the location-biased language model and the location-specific humor classifier. Then, we focus on the story generation pipeline that follows three stages: (1) A **candidate selection** stage where possible word replacements for the blanks are generated using a location-biased language model; (2) A **candidate ranking** stage where the selected candidates are ranked by their humor contribution to the sentences they occur in, using a location-specific humor classifier; (3) A **story completion** stage where funny stories are created by selecting the top ranked funny transformations for each sentence, and concatenating them to obtain complete stories.

### 4.1 Training components

#### 4.1.1 Location-Biased Language Model

In order to be able to generate a Mad Lib-like story, the first step is to automatically fill in a blank with a word that fits the context. Such words can be predicted by a language model, such as the BERT masked language model (MLM), a state-of-the-art deep learning framework (Devlin et al., 2019) based on a multi-layer bidirectional Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017), trained on the English Wikipedia and Book Corpus (Zhu et al., 2015) datasets, for masked word and next sentence prediction tasks. Since its predictive ability is generic and it does not take the desired demographics into consideration (such as location, in our case), we train it further on location-rich data, thus enabling the model to make word predictions in context biased toward a particular country. To achieve this, we use a large dataset of blog posts (Garimella et al., 2017) authored by users from IN and US (35K blogs, 17M tokens for IN, and 33K, 12M tokens for US). We use the BERT$_{\text{base}}$ model with default parameters. This allows the language model to incorporate location-based word preferences in its prediction and to provide different replacements for a masked word occurring in a sentence written by an Indian English speaker versus an American English speaker.

#### 4.1.2 Location-Specific Humor Classification

Furthermore, automatically generated word replacements in context need to be assessed for humor given an audience with a particular demographic. To enable us to gauge the funniness level of a word replacement, we train location-specific humor classifiers based on the BERT framework by leveraging the AMT annotations and the country of the turkers. Of the 50 stories, 40 are used for training,[^5] and the remaining for evaluation. The stories’ sentence splits are retained from (Hossain et al., 2017). The training and validation datasets consist of sentence pairs and their associated humor labels which are derived as follows. First, labels are assigned to each filling using a **majority vote** over the funny judgements in the gold standard. A sentence is considered **funny** if at least 50% of the filled-in words are funny. Sentences that do not contain blanks are not used for training.

Table 1 shows the sizes of train, validation and test sets. As we instructed the players to create funny stories, the datasets are, as expected, skewed toward the funny class. We opt to augment our data with additional non-funny sentence-pairs from Wikipedia. Since candidate sentences are location-agnostic, and therefore have the same form for both India and US, we introduce location-biased completions. We use our location-specific MLM to replace masked words in Wikipedia sentences[^6] with the highest probability word given the location model, resulting in non-funny sentence pairs that are different by location.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>TYPE</th>
      <th colspan="2">FUNNY</th>
      <th colspan="2">NOT FUNNY</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>IN</th>
      <th>US</th>
      <th>IN</th>
      <th>US</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>TRAIN</td>
      <td>566</td>
      <td>574</td>
      <td>130</td>
      <td>122</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>VALIDATION</td>
      <td>173</td>
      <td>193</td>
      <td>49</td>
      <td>29</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>TEST</td>
      <td>137</td>
      <td>210</td>
      <td>94</td>
      <td>21</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Table 1: Statistics on the humor classification datasets.

[^5]: The 4 newly created stories replace 4 training set stories.  
[^6]: We focus on one of the four POS tags, as other hint types are not trivial to identify.
