Jerry M Suls. 1972. A two-stage model for the appreciation of jokes and cartoons: An information-processing analysis. *The psychology of humor: Theoretical perspectives and empirical issues*, 1:81–100.

Julia M Taylor and Lawrence J Mazlack. 2004. Computationally recognizing wordplay in jokes. In *Proceedings of the annual meeting of the cognitive science society*, volume 26.

Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al. 2023. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288*.

Villy Tsakona. 2017. Genres of humor. In *The Routledge handbook of language and humor*, pages 489–503. Routledge.

Jindong Wang, Cuiling Lan, Chang Liu, Yidong Ouyang, Tao Qin, Wang Lu, Yiqiang Chen, Wenjun Zeng, and Philip S. Yu. 2022. Generalizing to unseen domains: A survey on domain generalization. *Preprint*, arXiv:2103.03097.

Minghan Wang, Hao Yang, Ying Qin, Shiliang Sun, and Yao Deng. 2020. Unified humor detection based on sentence-pair augmentation and transfer learning. In *Proceedings of the 22nd annual conference of the European association for machine translation*, pages 53–59.

Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu, Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin Lhoest, and Alexander Rush. 2020. Transformers: State-of-the-art natural language processing. *Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations*, pages 38–45.

Heng Xie, Lizhou Cui, Yuhang Cao, Junjie Chen, Jianhua Tao, Chunhang Fan, Xuefei Liu, Zhengqi Wen, Heng Lu, Yuguang Yang, et al. 2023. Multimodal cross-lingual features and weight fusion for cross-cultural humor detection. In *Proceedings of the 4th on Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Challenge and Workshop: Mimicked Emotions, Humour and Personalisation*, pages 51–57.

Zhijun Xu, Siyu Yuan, Lingjie Chen, and Deqing Yang. 2024. " a good pun is its own reword": Can large language models understand puns? *arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.13599*.

Bat-el Yankovitz, Anat Kasirer, and Nira Mashal. 2023. The relationship between semantic joke and idiom comprehension in adolescents with autism spectrum disorder. *Brain Sciences*, 13(6):935.

Yu Yu, Shahram Khadivi, and Jia Xu. 2022. Can data diversity enhance learning generalization? In *Proceedings of the 29th International Conference on Computational Linguistics*, pages 4933–4945, Gyeongju, Republic of Korea. International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Yu Zhang and Qiang Yang. 2021. A survey on multi-task learning. *Preprint*, arXiv:1707.08114.

Yuchang Zhu, Huazhen Zhong, Qunshu Lin, Haotong Wei, Xiaolong Sun, Zixuan Yu, Minghao Liu, Zibin Zheng, and Liang Chen. 2025. What matters in llm-generated data: Diversity and its effect on model fine-tuning. *Preprint*, arXiv:2506.19262.

Fuzhen Zhuang, Zhiyuan Qi, Keyu Duan, Dongbo Xi, Yongchun Zhu, Hengshu Zhu, Hui Xiong, and Qing He. 2021. A comprehensive survey on transfer learning. *Proceedings of the IEEE*, 109(1):43–76.

Yiftah Ziser, Elad Kravi, and David Carmel. 2020. Humor detection in product question answering systems. *Proceedings of the 43rd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval*.
