# One Joke to Rule them All?  
# On the (Im)possibility of Generalizing Humor Detection

Mor Turgeman<sup>1</sup> &nbsp;&nbsp; Chen Shani<sup>2</sup> &nbsp;&nbsp; Dafna Shahaf<sup>1</sup>  
<sup>1</sup>The Hebrew University of Jerusalem &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <sup>2</sup>Stanford University  
mortur@cs.huji.ac.il, cshani@stanford.edu, dshahaf@cs.huji.ac.il

## Abstract

Humor is a complex form of communication that remains challenging for machines. Despite its broadness, most existing research on computational humor traditionally focused on modeling one specific type of humor. In this work, we wish to understand whether competence on specific humor tasks confers any ability to transfer to novel, unseen types; in other words, is this fragmentation inevitable? This question is especially timely as new humor types continuously emerge in online contexts (e.g., memes, anti-humor, AI fails). If LLMs are to keep up with this evolving landscape, they must be able to capture deeper, transferable mechanisms.

To investigate this, we conduct a series of transfer learning experiments across four datasets, representing different humor tasks. We explore varied diversity settings (varying between 1-3 datasets in training, testing on a novel one). Experiments show that models are capable of some transfer, reaching up to 75% accuracy on binary unseen datasets; training on diverse sources improves transferability (1.88-4.05%) with minimal-to-no drop in in-domain performance. Somewhat surprisingly, the one dataset (Dad Jokes) emerges as the best enabler of transfer, but the hardest one to transfer to. We release data and code.[^1]

## 1 Introduction

Humor spans a wide range of styles and mechanisms, from puns and sarcasm to absurdity and satire (Attardo, 2024; Raskin, 1979), many of which involve linguistic play, pragmatic inference, or violations of logical expectations (Suls, 1972; Attardo, 2000). It is subjective and culturally dependent (Attardo, 2024; Martin and Ford, 2018), making the detection, generation, and explanation of humor hard for humans and machines (Shafiei and Saffari, 2025; Loakman et al., 2025; Horvitz et al., 2024). Despite the broad and diverse nature of humor, much of existing work on computational humor has focused on narrow, specialized tasks such as detecting humor in internet memes (Kumari et al., 2024), knock-knock jokes (Taylor and Mazlack, 2004), puns (Xu et al., 2024; Miller et al., 2017; Cocchieri et al., 2025), cartoons (Shahaf et al., 2015) or even “That’s what she said” jokes (Kiddon and Brun, 2011), but relatively little attention has been paid to learning the general phenomenon of humor.

In this work, we are interested in **whether competence on one or more specific humor tasks confers any ability to transfer to novel, unseen types.** That is, we wish to understand whether splitting humor into subproblems is a necessary design choice or a historical artifact. This is especially important as new humor variants emerge over time; should we expect LLMs to understand them without further training, as humans often do?

Researchers from neuroscience and psychology have studied whether skill in one type of humor category aids another in *humans*, and the evidence is mixed: Findings suggest shared mechanisms (e.g., incongruity resolution) that provide some common ground across joke types and may enable partial transfer, but also specialized skills (language ambiguity, theory-of-mind, cultural knowledge) that are type-specific and create “transfer costs” (Dai et al., 2017; Farkas et al., 2021) (see Section 7).

In NLP, several studies have explored transfer between different types of humor or languages (Arora et al., 2022; Baranov et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2020). There is some evidence that multi-category training helps humor detection, but these works did not test on humor types that were not a part of training, making it difficult to assess true generalization to novel types of humor. Moreover, they rarely discuss the relations between humor types.

In this work we experiment with four humor-related datasets, representing different types of hu-

[^1]: https://github.com/morturr/HumorTransferLearning.git

*Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Computational Humor (CHum 2026), pages 1–28*  
July 3, 2026 ©2026 Association for Computational Linguistics
