ment in transfer accuracy with increasing diversity. Moving from single- to double-dataset training yields an average gain of 3.02 percentage points across target datasets, with further gains of 1.04 points from double to triple. The only exception is Dad Jokes, which shows the opposite trend, arguably due to its relative high diversity.

Mistral follows a similar trend from single-to-double-dataset training, improving by 2.02 points on average. However, it plateaus in triple-training, with a slight drop of 0.14 points compared to double, though still 1.88 higher than single-training.

Training on diverse humor sources consistently improves models’ generalization to unseen humor types. The largest gains come from moving beyond single-dataset training; returns begin to diminish as more datasets are added, suggesting that **moderate diversity may be nearly as effective as maximal diversity for cross-domain humor transfer.**

### 5.3.2 Transfer Between Distinct Humor Types

**Data diversity yields larger gains for structurally simpler humor types.** We now focus on humor transfer across *humor types*. Headlines and One Liners consistently benefit from increased diversity, with both LLMs showing improved accuracy from single- to double- to triple-dataset training. A minor exception occurs for LLaMA on One Liners, where double- slightly outperforms triple-training, though both exceed single baseline.

For Amazon, LLaMA’s accuracy improves substantially when increasing diversity. In contrast, for Mistral, double-dataset-training yields the highest accuracy, while the triple performing slightly worse than single-dataset baseline. Dad Jokes displays a decline in performance as data diversity increases.

These findings suggest that increasing training data diversity is more beneficial for generalizing to structurally simpler humor tasks.

### 5.3.3 Data Diversity & In-Domain Accuracy

**Less in-domain training data leads to only a small drop in in-domain performance.** We evaluate the impact of reduced dataset specific training data on in-domain performance. For each dataset, we compare its single-dataset training accuracy to the average accuracy of the three models trained on it within a triple-dataset setup (Tables 2, 4).

In most cases, in-domain accuracy decreases under the triple-training setup due to the reduced amount of in-domain data (just 33% compared to single-dataset training). However, the average accuracy of Mistral drops by only 0.49 percentage points, and LLaMA-2 by 1.76. These results suggest that both models are relatively robust to reductions in in-domain data, with only minimal performance loss even when training data is substantially diluted. In rare cases, the triple setup led to small performance gains.

## 6 Discussion

**Prioritizing Diversity in Humor Learning.** As our results show, increasing data diversity generally enhances humor transfer learning, echoing trends observed in other NLP tasks (Yu et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2022; Rozen et al., 2019). Reducing the amount of in-domain data to 33% led to only a slight decrease in accuracy. This could mean our datasets were large enough to retain performance despite downsampling, or that future humor applications should prioritize data diversity over size (similar to recent work highlighting the importance of diversity in synthetic datasets (Zhu et al., 2025; Long et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2024)).

**Impact of Dad Jokes’ Construction.** We hypothesize that one reason models trained on Dad Jokes generalize so effectively to other humor types (but not vice versa) is how its negative samples were crafted to syntactically and topically resemble jokes, but without the punchline (also supported by the high self-similarity of Dad Jokes in embedding space, see below). This design encourages models to focus on humor, as they could not rely on superficial, dataset-specific signals. This insight suggests a new strategy for building humor datasets with strong transfer potential.

**Comparing Mistral and LLaMA-2.** While both capture humor and exhibit transfer, they show distinct strengths. Notably, Mistral consistently outperforms LLaMA-2 in transfer settings, suggesting a superior ability to learn shared stylistic or structural features across humor types.

Despite differences in performance, both models exhibit consistent patterns: (1) Dad Jokes reliably support transfer to other datasets but remain hard to generalize to; (2) Headlines and One Liners are easy to generalize to but offer limited transfer benefit; (3) Amazon occupies a middle ground, both benefiting from and contributing to transfer; and (4) data diversity particularly benefits structurally simpler humor types.

The alignment across models supports the conclusion that humor transfer is governed by struc-
