## A GPT-4-Turbo Prompt for Generating Dad Jokes

\###

1. input: ‘A grizzly kept talking to me and annoyed me He was unbearable’  
output: ‘A grizzly kept talking to me and annoyed me He was intolerable’

2. input: ‘For Christmas, I requested my family not to give me duplicates of the same item. Now I anticipate receiving the missing sock next time.’  
output: ‘For Christmas, I requested my family not to give me duplicates of the same item. Now I anticipate receiving the other book next time.’

3. input: ‘My son’s fourth birthday was today, but when he came to see me I didn’t recognize him at first. I’d never seen him be 4.’  
output: ‘My son’s fourth birthday was today, but when he came to see me I didn’t recognize him at first. He grew up so fast.’

4. input: ‘I asked my friend if he liked Nickleback. He told me that he never gave me any money’  
output: ‘I asked my friend if he liked Nickleback. He told me that he prefers Kings of Leon.’

5. input: ‘I went to a bookstore and asked where the self-help section was The clerk said that if she told me, it would defeat the purpose.’  
output: ‘I went to a bookstore and asked where the self-help section was The clerk said it was in the third aisle .’

\###

Using the examples in ### markers, please change some of the words in the following sentences to make them non humorous. You can change anything but please change the least you can:

## B More Dataset Examples

Tables 5, 7 shows additional examples from each dataset of positive (humorous) and negative (non-humorous) samples, respectively.
