| Name | Text Length Mean & Std | Positive Example | Negative Example |
|---|---:|---|---|
| Amazon Questions | 143.80 ± 58.64<br>*60.41 ± 37.21 | PEREGRINE Banana Saver Yellow \| I have a problem with wolves where I live. Will this carrier protect bananas from wolves? | Two-Wheel Smart Scooter Self Balancing Unicycle Electric Scooter Electric Unicycle Smart Wheel \| Do you ship by ups or fedex? |
| Reddit Dad Jokes | 86.10 ± 26.25 | I went to a bookstore and asked where the self-help section was The clerk said that if she told me, it would defeat the purpose. | Did you hear of the Librarian who became unwell while reading a book? She had to take a sick leave. |
| Sarcasm Headlines | 62.45 ± 21.10 | new york introduces shoe-sharing program for city’s pedestrians | stars with gray hair prove getting older isn’t all that bad |
| One Liners | 60.66 ± 18.44 | Couldn’t afford to fix my brakes, so I made my horn louder. | Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum. |

Table 1: Properties of the datasets used in our experiments: mean and std of text length, and example sentences from the positive (humorous) and negative (non-humorous) classes. **See Appendix B for more examples.** *For Amazon Questions, we report both the length of the full input (product name + question) and the question alone.

mor. We selected two advanced models, LLaMA-2-7B (Touvron et al., 2023) and Mistral-7B (Jiang et al., 2023), specifically chosen because they demonstrated poor performance on these datasets in a zero-shot setting; this allowed us to evaluate their potential for improvement through transfer. Our contributions are:

- We present the first systematic evaluation of humor transfer learning across multiple humor types using LLMs.
- We analyzed the models’ performance in single and multi-task humor binary classification settings. We find that models are capable of some transfer, with Mistral achieving 75% accuracy on an unseen dataset. **Training on diverse data enhances transfer to unseen types.** In-domain performance remains relatively stable as the training set diversity increases, even as the number of training examples from the domain decreases significantly.
- We discover that certain humor types (e.g., Dad Jokes) more effectively enable transfer to others, suggesting latent structural relations.
- We propose a framework for studying humor transfer, including developing a method to generate negative (non-funny) examples for datasets that includes only positive ones.
- We make our code and data public<sup>1</sup>.

## 2 Research Questions

We investigate the capacity of LLMs to perform transfer learning across different types of humor via the following research questions (RQs):

- **RQ1:** Do LLMs have the capability for humor transfer learning? Can they learn some type(s) of humor and generalize to new humor types?
- **RQ2:** Between which types of humor is transfer most effective?
- **RQ3:** How does data diversity influence humor transfer learning? Does training on more diverse datasets (e.g., containing multiple humor types) enhance generalization?

## 3 Data

To answer these RQs, we experiment with four humor datasets, each targeting a distinct humor task. Table 1 provides representative examples from both the humorous and non-humorous classes of all the datasets, and mean text lengths (more in Appendix B). The datasets differ in style, domain, and structure, providing a diverse testbed for generalization (see Appendix L for syntactic analyses).

### 3.1 Dataset Descriptions

**Amazon:** 19K records, each containing a product name paired with a user-submitted question, annotated for humor by humans (Ziser et al., 2020).

**One Liners:** 32K one-liner sentences (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2005). Humorous examples were collected using an algorithm designed to harvest funny one-liners. Non-humorous examples were sourced from news headlines, proverbs, and sentences from the British National Corpus.

**Sarcasm Headlines:** 28K headlines consisting of both real news headlines and sarcastic ones from *The Onion*, a satirical news outlet (Misra and Arora, 2023).

**Reddit Dad Jokes:** Reddit posts collected from the r / dadjokes subreddit (Reddit, 2023). For the positive class, we selected high-confidence positive samples (Reddit score ≥ 20).
