As the original dataset only includes positive (i.e., humorous) examples, we needed to generate negative samples. To create negative examples that closely match the positive class in content, writing style, and semantics, we used GPT-4 Turbo (OpenAI, 2023) in a few-shot setup. For the samples with lower Reddit score, we asked GPT to minimally modify each joke, preserving style and content but removing the humorous element. E.g., given “Why can’t milk cartons walk? Because they lactose,” the generated negative was “Why can’t milk containers move? They lack appendages.” (see prompt in Appendix A).

To assess generation quality, we manually reviewed 3,000 outputs. Only 2.63% did not maintain the style or content (typically due to the LLM summarizing the unfunny joke). Importantly, we found no examples where the punchline was retained. To ensure balanced text length distributions between both classes of Dad Jokes, we paired each negative example with the closest-length positive example, ensuring no duplicates.

### 3.2 Dataset Properties and Preprocessing

**Humor Styles.** The datasets span a variety of humor styles: While there is some natural overlap in humor types, questions in the Amazon dataset are often sarcastic or ironic, News Headlines feature more sophisticated or absurd humor that often borders on non-sequitur (and requires some knowledge about current events). One-Liners and Dad Jokes both include brief, standalone jokes, frequently employing puns or wordplay; dad jokes also includes many short stories (see Appendix B for specific examples that illustrate these differences; full data will be published upon acceptance).

**Data Partitioning.** For fair cross-dataset comparisons, we randomly downsampled all datasets to 6,250 examples. Each dataset was balanced between positive and negative classes. We used an 80%/2%/18% training/validation/test split (to balance evaluation reliability with efficiency, given the large number of trained models and evaluations).

In transfer experiments from multiple datasets, we constructed the training set by sampling equally from each dataset, ensuring class balance and maintaining a consistent training size of 5,000 (2,500 positive and 2,500 negative datapoints).

**Dataset Distinctness.** To address concerns about overlap between the datasets that could inflate transfer results, we performed domain classification. We trained models on a 4-class task using 5k samples (equal amount of samples from each dataset), with the goal of correctly identifying the originating dataset for each sample. We repeated the experiment 3 times, using only positive samples, only negative samples, and both positives and negatives. Both models achieved 98-100% accuracy in all settings. This indicates that the datasets **have clear enough differences, while still allowing models to leverage shared patterns across domains.** See Appendix K for t-SNE visualizations.

## 4 Experiments

We conducted a suite of experiments to examine LLM humor transfer, data diversity effects, and humor type differences (see RQs in Section 2). Figure 1 depicts our three experimental setups.

- **Single Dataset Training:** Examines whether basic transfer occurs between datasets (RQ1) and whether certain datasets are more similar to others (RQ2). Models were fine-tuned on each dataset and evaluated on all datasets.
- **Double Dataset Training:** Explores multi-task learning by examining how training on two humor styles affects both in-domain performance and generalization to other styles (RQ3), and further investigates the relationships between different humor types (RQ2). Models were fine-tuned on each pair of datasets and evaluated on all datasets.
- **Triple Dataset Training:** Examines the effect of training in the most diverse data setting to evaluate how data diversity impacts transferability (RQ3), and to identify which humor types are most generalizable from others (RQ2). Models were trained on three datasets and evaluated on all datasets.

**Models.** For all experiments, we used both LLaMA-2-7B (Touvron et al., 2023) and Mistral-7B (Jiang et al., 2023). We selected them for two main reasons: (1) they are comparable in size but belong to different families, to assess whether transferability trends are consistent across architectures; (2) both models are widely used and have demonstrated strong performance on various NLP tasks but performed near guess-level (40%-56%) in the zero-shot setting on our tasks (Appendix C).

Through our exploration, we found that simpler models (e.g., non-LLM) struggled to capture the nuances of the task, while larger models performed too well in the zero-shot setting. The rationale behind the choice of models was to ensure that
