| Text | Keyword = Target |
|---|---|
| A fat woman just served me at McDonalds and said ”Sorry about the wait”.<br>I replied and said, ”Don’t worry, you’ll lose it eventually”. | Yes |
| Don’t worry if a fat guy comes to kidnap you...<br>I told Santa all I want for Christmas is you. | No |

Table 2: Sample of potentially offensive and non-offensive texts

From these texts, we identified the target, or butt, of the joke and made the assumption that a text could be potentially offensive to our annotators if the hate speech keyword was the target of the joke. We selected 1,000 texts this way. We also assumed that the text would likely be considered not offensive if the keyword was mentioned, but was not the target and selected a further 1,000 texts like this. This was to reduce the probability that a humor/offense detection system would learn to classify texts simply based on the presence of a hate speech keyword.

### 3.1.1 Selection of Twitter texts

In order to avoid introducing annotation confounds such as a lack of cultural or linguistic knowledge (Meaney, 2020), we selected the texts and the annotators from the same region – the US. When sourcing the humorous Twitter data, we selected accounts according to whether they were based in the US and posted almost exclusively humorous content (e.g. @humurous1liners, @conanobrien). For the non-humorous Twitter accounts, we elected not to use news sources, e.g. CNN due to stylistic differences between news and humor (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2006) making them easy to differentiate. The non-humorous accounts we selected centred on US celebrities (e.g. @thatonequeen, @Oprah), organisations that represent the targets of hate speech groups (e.g. @BlkMentalHealth, in order to increase the occurrences of the keywords in a non-humorous and non-offensive context), trivia accounts (e.g. @UberFacts, as the question and answer structure is similar to some types of setup and punchline) and tv/movie quotation accounts (e.g. @MovieQuotesPage, in order to resemble the dialogue-type jokes that are common on Twitter). Please see the appendix for a comprehensive list of accounts.

Using the Twitter API, we crawled up to 2,000 tweets from each account, and removed retweets and texts containing links. We also removed tweets that contained references to US Politics, the pandemic, or TV show characters as topical humor can be difficult to understand once the event it is tied to has passed (Highfield, 2015). From an initial 76,542 texts, we were left with 8,000 tweets. From these, we removed hashtags that labelled the texts as humorous, e.g. #joke, and using Ekphrasis (Baziotis et al., 2017) we split up any remaining hashtags into their constituent words so as to make them less easy to differentiate from the Kaggle texts.

## 3.2 Annotation

We recruited annotators from the Prolific[^2] platform. Participants were recruited based on their self-reported native English-speaker status, US citizenship, and membership of one of the following age groups: 18-25, 26-40, 41-55, 56-70. Each text was annotated by 5 members of each age group, giving a total of 20 annotations per text. Batches comprised 100 texts, and annotators answered the following questions:

1. Is the intention of this text to be humorous?

2. Is this text generally offensive?

3. Is this text personally offensive?

In the case that a user answered ‘yes’ to any of these questions, they were asked to rate the humor or offense from 1-5 (see figure 1). For the humor rating, the user was also given the option to select ‘I don’t get it’, meaning that they recognised by the structure or content that the text was intended to be humorous, but that they were unsure of whether the text was funny. This is distinct from a rating of 1, which is a recognition of humor, with little appreciation for it.

The annotator instructions outlined that the first annotation question was intended to determine the *genre* of the text, and should be distinguished from *funniness*. Annotators were instructed to look at the structure of the joke, e.g. setup and punchline, or the content of the joke, e.g. absurdity, in order to determine if the intention was to be humorous.

[^2]: https://www.prolific.co/
