by the annotators, and which demonstrate traits of irony or sarcasm, were difficult to classify for the top teams, and produced mixed results:

1. If alcohol influences short-term memory, what does alcohol do?
2. How much should I rest between sets at the gym? I’ve been doing anywhere between 60 to 90 days to give my muscles a good chance to recover.

In terms of tasks 1b and 2, we analyzed the texts which proved most difficult to predict the humor and offense ratings for the top-10 systems. We calculated the mean average error (MAE) between the top 10 systems’ predictions and the ground truth. We then examined the 75th percentile of MAE.

|        | Twitter | Kaggle |
|--------|---------|--------|
| Humor  | 70%     | 30%    |
| Offense | 55.2%  | 44.8%  |

Table 10: Percentage of texts with highest MAE from the different sources

Interestingly, there was a disproportionately high number of Kaggle texts among the offensive texts whose rating was difficult to predict (44.8% while the Kaggle text make up only 20% of the data). A quick examination of these texts revealed there was a large number of ironic texts which were predicted to be highly offensive, although the ground truth did not reflect this, for example:

Why do black people eat fried chicken?  
Because it tastes good.

### 7.4 Humor Controversy

As we were interested in the rule-based approach that team SarcasmDet took for this task, we investigated the upper-bound of success for any threshold-based heuristic which determines whether a text was controversial given the humor score alone. Figure 2 shows the hypothetical F1-score and accuracy that could be achieved by such a system. Assuming a perfect score on humor rating prediction, if teams assigned a controversial label for any text with a humor rating of over 2, they could achieve first place in this task in terms of accuracy with a score of 0.580. A threshold of 1.45 given perfect knowledge of the humor labels would result

[Figure: Line chart showing f1-score (red solid line) and accuracy (blue dashed line) versus threshold ($\tau$), with y-axis from 0 to 1 and x-axis from 0 to 4.]

Figure 2: For varied values of a threshold, $\tau$, accuracy and f1-score achieved by a hypothetical model predicting the label *controversial* for all texts in the test set with ground-truth humor score $> \tau$. Note that participants did not have access to these ground-truth scores for the test set, making these results an upper-bound for this type of threshold-based approach.

in a leaderboard-topping F1-score of 0.635. However, the teams that took part did not obtain the perfect humor rating scores required for this simple rule to work so effectively, yet were still able to achieve similar scores on the task. This suggests that their systems were learning something, but that ultimately the task is a difficult one.

Although we aimed to increase inter-annotator agreement in this task’s annotation procedure, by matching the origin of the texts and annotators, the agreement on humor ratings was low, and indeed the task which aimed to capture this controversy proved difficult.

## 8 Conclusion

We provided 10,000 texts annotated for humor and offense by a broad range of annotators. Transformer models were a dominant approach to this task, with the exception of the humor controversy task, which proved to be difficult for most teams, and in which a simple, rule-based system achieved one of the top-3 scores. As multi-task learning setups proved more effective than single-task learning demonstrates, this that there is some correlation between humor and offense detection. It was also interesting to note which model adaptations were useful and which were not. Finally, an analysis of the errors in humor analysis reveals some types of humor which may be captured inaccurately, even by the most powerful models.
