| Team | Acc | F1 | Kaggle F1 | Twitter F1 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| PALI | 0.4943 | 0.6302 | 0.6667 | 0.6118 |
| mmmm | 0.4699 | 0.6279 | 0.6621 | 0.6109 |
| SarcasmDet | 0.4699 | 0.6270 | 0.6552 | 0.6130 |
| EndTimes | 0.4602 | 0.6261 | 0.6598 | 0.6097 |
| DeepBlueAI | 0.4650 | 0.6257 | 0.6621 | 0.6078 |
| CS-UM6P | 0.4537 | 0.6242 | 0.6598 | 0.6070 |
| CHaines | 0.4537 | 0.6242 | 0.6598 | 0.6070 |
| Ferryman | 0.4537 | 0.6242 | 0.6598 | 0.6070 |
| IIITH | 0.4537 | 0.6242 | 0.6598 | 0.6070 |
| abcbpc | 0.4537 | 0.6242 | 0.6598 | 0.6070 |
| fdabek | 0.4537 | 0.6233 | 0.6598 | 0.6057 |
| YoungSheldon | 0.4780 | 0.6210 | 0.6545 | 0.6049 |
| Humor@IITK | 0.4520 | 0.6209 | 0.6574 | 0.6033 |
| RoMa | 0.4732 | 0.6197 | 0.6503 | 0.6042 |
| *baseline (BERT)* | *0.4731* | *0.6232* | *0.6574* | *0.6060* |
| *baseline (SVM)* | *0.4374* | *0.4624* | *0.4804* | *0.4529* |

Table 7: Results of the top performing systems for participants of task 1c (humor controversy), showing F1 and accuracy for the whole test set, and F1 for kaggle texts only and tweets only.

Similarly, many teams experimented with single and multi-task learning setups, and multi-task models tended to be more successful across sub-tasks. Further improvements were achieved with domain adaptation strategies and adversarial training.

### 6.2.1 DeepBlueAI (Song et al., 2021)

DeepBlueAI achieved high performance in sub-tasks 1a and 2. This team used stacked transformer models, which used the majority vote (in the case of classification) or the average prediction (for regression) from a RoBERTa and an ALBERT model. They optimized the performance of these PLMs with a number of techniques. First, they employed task-adaptive fine-tuning (Gururangan et al., 2020) by continuing pre-training on the text of the Hackathon data. They then augmented the dataset by using pseudo-labelling to generate labels for the test set, and added these to the training data. Then, after encoding the input, they used adversarial training (Miyato et al., 2016), e.g. the addition of perturbations to the embedding layer, to improve generalization. The predictions were produced after Multi Sample Dropout was applied. This approach achieved third place in task 1a and first place in task 2.

| Team | All | Kaggle | Twitter |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| DeepBlueAI | 0.4120 | 0.7607 | 0.2647 |
| mmmm | 0.4190 | 0.7757 | 0.2677 |
| HumorHunter | 0.4230 | 0.7742 | 0.2765 |
| abcbpc | 0.4275 | 0.7942 | 0.2712 |
| fdabek | 0.4406 | 0.7915 | 0.2979 |
| stevenhuahua | 0.4454 | 0.8019 | 0.2999 |
| megatron | 0.4456 | 0.8021 | 0.3001 |
| MagicPai | 0.4460 | 0.8113 | 0.2948 |
| ES-JUST | 0.4467 | 0.8065 | 0.2993 |
| SarcasmDet | 0.4469 | 0.8264 | 0.2861 |
| *baseline (BERT)* | *0.5769* | *1.0141* | *0.4042* |
| *baseline (SVM)* | *0.6415* | *1.0908* | *0.4710* |

Table 8: Results of the top performing systems for participants of task 2 (offense rating), showing RMSE for whole test set, for kaggle texts only and tweets only.

### 6.2.2 abcbpc (Pang et al., 2021)

This team deployed ERNIE 2.0 in a multi-task setup with task-specific gradients and loss for each sub-task. Using a cross-validation approach, they fine-tuned their model on each fold of data and took the average, or majority decision of their best-performing models as their predictions. Experiments demonstrated that their multi-task setup performed better than single-task learning with ERNIE 2.0, and they achieved the best score in task 1b.

### 6.2.3 Humor@IITK (Gupta et al., 2021)

This team also experimented with single-task and multi-task learning on pre-trained language models. They implemented two ensembling methods: in the single-task setup, they concatenated the embeddings produced by BERT, RoBERTa, ERNIE 2.0, DeBERTA and XLNET. In the multi-task setup, they used vote-based classification, or a weighted aggregate of outputs for the regression tasks. They also implemented an ensemble comprising a weighted average of best single-task and multi-task models, which achieved third place on task 1b. Interestingly, this team’s experiments on data augmentation, e.g. generating slightly different variations of the input sentences, disimproved performance. The team hypothesize that the impact of both humor and offense often hinges on the choice of specific words, and replacing these words with synonyms may undermine the humorous or offensive effect.

### 6.2.4 SarcasmDet (Faraj and Abdullah, 2021)

For tasks 1a, 1b and 2, this team used either BERT or RoBERTa models with different hyperparameters, and used an ensemble of these models to make predictions with hard (e.g. majority or average) voting. Interestingly, for task 1c, in which they placed third, they used a rule, that if the humor rating predicted for a text was greater or equal to 3, they labelled the text as controversial.
