In terms of offense, we posed two annotation questions in order to avoid ambiguity about which type of offense was meant. We instructed annotators to consider as generally offensive, a text which targets a person or group of people, simply for belonging to a certain group. Alternatively, they could select yes for generally offensive if they thought that a large number of people were likely to be offended by the joke. The last question asked annotators if they felt personally offended by the text, or if they felt offended on another person’s behalf. We used only the generally offensive ratings in this task.

[Figure: Screenshot from an annotation tool showing “Tweet 1 / 100”, a tweet reading “Saying ‘whoa girl’ like you're talking to a horse, is not a good way to calm your wife down when you're arguing.”, and questions/buttons for humorous intention, offense ratings, personal offense, and “Next”.]

Figure 1: Screenshot from the tool used to annotate the texts.

### 3.3 Quality Control and Data Discarded

Each batch of 100 texts comprised approximately 20% of texts from Kaggle. As the majority of these have a setup and punchline structure, or other recognisable humor traits, we used these as a quality control. If an annotator did not label at least 60% of these as humor, it was clear that they they did not follow the instructions for the first question, and annotated based on perceived humor, as opposed to observation of humorous characteristics. We therefore discarded these submissions and replaced the annotators. Of 2,364 annotation sessions (e.g. batches of 100), 301 submissions were discarded and replaced, and the ratings of the remaining 2,062 annotation sessions make up the dataset. Of these, 1,569 annotators rated one batch of texts with an additional 492 doing a second batch.

### 3.4 Data Statistics

Post-annotation, we classed a text as humorous if the majority of its twenty votes labelled it as such. In a small number of cases where votes were tied, we assigned the label humorous. For the texts labelled humorous, we calculated the average humor score, which was the average of the numerical votes. “No” ratings did not count towards this value, and votes of “I don’t know” were counted as 0, because this was deemed to be a recognizable humor structure, but one in which the humor was not successful.

| Label | Affirmative | Negative | Average Rating |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Humorous | 6179 | 3821 | 2.24 |
| Controversial | 3052 | 3017 | N/A |
| Offensive | 5754 | 4246 | 1.02 |

Table 3: Data Statistics

The humor controversy label was based on whether the variance between the humor ratings was higher or lower than the median variance in the training set (median $s^2 = 1.79$). The offense rating was the average of all ratings given, including ‘no’ as 0. Table 3 summarises the labels in the dataset, and in the case of offense, affirmative indicates that the rating is higher than 0.

| Ratings | Krippendorff’s $\alpha$ |
|---|---:|
| Class label | 0.736 |
| Humor rating | 0.124 |
| Offense rating | 0.518 |

Table 4: Inter-annotator agreement (Krippendorff’s $\alpha$) for ratings used in subtask 1a, 1b and 2

The dataset was split 80:10:10 for training, development and test sets. The texts and annotations will continue to be available on the Codalab website, and the tweet ids, and usernames will be retained for non-commercial research use, in line with the Twitter Academic Developer Policy.

## 4 Task Description and Evaluation

We divided our tasks into four subtasks.
