# SemEval-2021 Task 7:  
# HaHackathon, Detecting and Rating Humor and Offense

**J.A. Meaney<sup>1</sup>, Steven R. Wilson<sup>1</sup>, Luis Chiruzzo<sup>2</sup>, Adam Lopez<sup>1, 3</sup>, Walid Magdy<sup>1,4</sup>**  
<sup>1</sup> School of Informatics, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK  
<sup>2</sup> Universidad de la República, Uruguay  
<sup>3</sup> Rasa  
<sup>4</sup> The Alan Turing Institute, London, UK  
`{jameaney, steven.wilson}@ed.ac.uk`  
`{alopez, wmagdy}@inf.ed.ac.uk`  
`luischir@fing.edu.uy`

## Abstract

SemEval 2021 Task 7, HaHackathon, was the first shared task to combine the previously separate domains of humor detection and offense detection. We collected 10,000 texts from Twitter and the Kaggle Short Jokes dataset, and had each annotated for humor and offense by 20 annotators aged 18-70. Our subtasks were binary humor detection, prediction of humor and offense ratings, and a novel controversy task: to predict if the variance in the humor ratings was higher than a specific threshold. The subtasks attracted 36-58 submissions, with most of the participants choosing to use pre-trained language models. Many of the highest performing teams also implemented additional optimization techniques, including task-adaptive training and adversarial training. The results suggest that the participating systems are well suited to humor detection, but that humor controversy is a more challenging task. We discuss which models excel in this task, which auxiliary techniques boost their performance, and analyze the errors which were not captured by the best systems.

## 1 Introduction

Humor is a key component of many forms of communication, and so it is commanding an increasing amount of attention in the natural language processing (NLP) community (Attardo, 2008; Taylor and Attardo, 2017; Amin and Burghardt, 2020). However, like much of figurative language processing, humor detection requires a different perspective on several traditional NLP tasks. For example, the problem of reducing lexical or syntactic ambiguity differs when ambiguity is key to some humor mechanisms. Tackling these challenges has the potential to improve many downstream applications, such as content moderation and human-computer interaction (Rayz, 2017).

However, humor is a subjective phenomenon, which evokes varying degrees of funniness in its audience, while also provoking other reactions such as offense, in certain listeners. The perception of humor is known to vary along the lines of age, gender, personality and other factors (Ruch, 2010; Kuipers, 2015; Hofmann et al., 2020). That humor can also evoke offense may be partly due to differences in acceptability judgements across demographic groups, and may also be in part due the use of humor to mask hateful or offensive content (Sue and Golash-Boza, 2013). Lockyer and Pickering (2005) expand on this by highlighting that it is common for societies to explore the link between humor and offense, free speech and respect.

HaHackathon is the first shared task to combine humor and offense detection, based on ratings from a wide variety of demographic groups. Task participants were asked to detect if a text was humorous and to predict its average ratings for both humor and offense. We also introduce a novel humor controversy detection task, which represents the extent to which annotators agreed/disagreed with each other over the humor rating of a joke. A humorous text was labelled as controversial if the variance in the humor ratings was higher than the median humor rating variance in the training set.

## 2 Related Work

Computational humor detection is a relatively established area of research. Taylor and Mazlack (2004) were one of the first to explore recognising wordplay with ngrams. Mihalcea and Strapparava (2005; 2006) experimented with 16,000 one-liners and 16,000 non-humorous texts, using a feature-driven approach. More recently, Zhang and Liu (2014) turned to online domains, by detecting humor on Twitter with a view to improving downstream tasks such as sentiment analysis and opinion

*Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2021), pages 105–119*  
Bangkok, Thailand (online), August 5–6, 2021. ©2021 Association for Computational Linguistics
