mining.

Workshops on humor detection have become more prominent with each shared task, and have attracted many new researchers to the field. SemEval 2017 (Potash et al., 2017) featured Hashtag Wars, a humor task with a unique data annotation procedure. This task featured tweets that had been submitted in response to a number of comedic hashtags released by a Comedy Central program. The top-10 response tweets were selected by the show’s producers and the winning tweet was selected by the show’s audience. Based on these labels, (top-10, winning tweet, and other) the sub-tasks required competitors to predict the labels, and to predict which text was funnier, given a pair tweets. The winning systems were split between feature-driven support vector machines (SVMs) and recurrent neural networks (RNNs).

The first Spanish-language humor detection challenges were the HAHA tasks in 2018 (Castro et al., 2018) and 2019 (Chiruzzo et al., 2019). These collected data from more than fifty different humorous Twitter accounts, representing a wide variety of humor genres. The sub-tasks asked competitors to predict if a text was humorous, and to predict the average funniness score given to the humorous texts. In the first year, the top teams used evolutionary algorithms to optimize linear models like Naive Bayes, as well as bi-directional RNNs. In the second year, the top teams started to use pre-trained language models (PLMs) like BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) and ULMFit (Howard and Ruder, 2018).

Most recently, Hossain et al. (2020) generated data for their task by collecting news headlines, and asking annotators to make a micro-edit to the headline to render it funny. These edited headlines were rated for funniness by other annotators. The sub-tasks were to rank the funnier of two edits, and to predict the average funniness score given by the annotators. The winning teams used ensembles of various PLMs, and RNNs.

## 3 Data

### 3.1 Data Collection

In order to examine naturally-occurring humorous and offensive content in English, we sourced 80% of our data from Twitter. The remaining 20% of texts, we selected from the Kaggle Short Jokes dataset[^1] for the following reasons:

| Target | Keywords |
|---|---|
| Sexism | She, woman, mother, girl, b\*tch, he, man, blond, p\*ssy, hooker, slut, wh\*re |
| Body | Fat, thin, skinny, tall, short, bald, amputee, redneck |
| Origin | Mexico, Mexican, Ireland, Irish, Indian, Pakistan, China, Chinese, Polish, German, France, Welsh, Vietnam, Asian, American, Russia, Arab, Jamaican, homeless |
| Sexual Orientation | Gay, lesbian, d\*ke, f\*ggot, homo, aids, LGBT, trans, tr\*nny |
| Racism | Black, Africa, African, wop, n\*\*\*\*\* white people, |
| Ideology | Feminism, leftie/lefty |
| Religion | Muslim, Islam, Jew, Jewish, Catholic, Protestant, Hindu, Buddhist, ISIS, Jesus, Mohammed |
| Health | Wheelchair, blind, deaf, r\*tard, Steven Hawking, Stevie Wonder, Helen Keller, dyslexic |

Table 1: Targets and Sample Keywords

- **Humor Quota:** To ensure that a sample of texts in the dataset were intended to be humorous. Our annotation procedure asks raters if the intention of the text is to be humorous (as evidenced by the the setup/punchline structure, or absurd content). As the texts were sourced from the /r/jokes and /r/cleanjokes subreddits, we were confident that the intention of the text was to be humorous.

- **Traditional Humor Quota:** We wanted to represent jokes which have a traditional setup and punchline structure. Twitter humor is known to use a number of unique features (Zhang and Liu, 2014), which may not be equally recognisable to all annotators and so we wanted to have a selection of conventionally recognisable texts in order to gauge what the audience response was, and to use as a quality check for annotators (see below).

- **Offense Quota:** To ensure that a proportion of texts were likely to be considered offensive by the annotators, half of the texts selected according to the procedure below.

To select potentially offensive texts, we used some of the keywords associated with Silva et al.’s (2016) sub-categories of hate speech in social media, and queried the Kaggle dataset for these.

[^1]: https://www.kaggle.com/abhinavmoudgil95/short-jokes
