#### 6.2.5 HumorHunter (Xie et al., 2021)

This team used DeBERTa with an embedding table which took into account the relative position of each token in the sentence. In an error analysis, they noted that texts with a question and answer were more often misclassified as humorous, possibly because this mimics the structure of a setup and punchline.

#### 6.2.6 Others

PALI and stce, the top-ranking teams in task 1a, both used an ensemble of RoBERTa large, and ERNIE 2.0, but declined to submit a paper outlining further details. Similarly, the team named mmmmm, which placed 2nd in both task 1b and 1c, did not furnish details of their approach.

### 6.3 Trends

#### 6.3.1 Domain Adaptation

Given that the majority of the data was sourced from Twitter, several teams implemented domain adaptation strategies at different stages of their pipeline. YoungSheldon (Sharma et al., 2021) used the Ekphrasis (Baziotis et al., 2017) toolkit, which is designed for Twitter-specific preprocessing. DLJUST (Al-Omari et al., 2021) also used it in their preprocessing pipeline, and found that this achieved better results, when used in combination with some further manual spelling correction.

Domain-specific models also showed some performance improvements. UPB (Smădu et al., 2021) used BERTweet (Nguyen et al., 2020), a transformer-based language model trained on tweets for their embedding layer, and DLJUST found that this model gave slightly better performance than RoBERTa on subtask 1a, but not on the regression tasks.

Amherst685 (Gugnani et al., 2021) used intermediate fine-tuning to adapt a series of pre-trained models to the style of language used in humorous and offensive texts. They used two large humor datasets, and two offense datasets, to adapt a variety of transformer models to the task, however, they did not see performance gains from this. Similarly to DeepBlueAI, RoMa (Labadie et al., 2021) and IIITH (Raha et al., 2021) used task-adaptive pre-training, and the latter team saw performance improvements of 1-5%.

#### 6.3.2 Data Augmentation/Perturbation

Similarly to DeepBlueAI, MagicPai (Ma et al., 2021) experimented with pseudo-labelling in order to increase the amount of data available. MagicPai also tried adversarial training by adding perturbations to the embedding layer, and along with Grenzlinie (Liu and Zhou, 2021) and UPB, found this to improve their transfer learning models’ performance. Amherst685 tried backtranslation in order to generate more sample texts, however they found that this was not successful.

#### 6.3.3 Contrasting Models and Task Setup

The majority of teams who contrasted RNNs with PLMs found that the latter was more suited to this task. ES-JUST (Bashabsheh and Alasal, 2021) found that RoBERTa performed better than RNNs and BERT. This finding replicates the ablation study by Morishita et al. (2020) in the 2020 SemEval task, which also demonstrated that RoBERTa performed better than other PLMs. However Tsia (Guan, 2021) found that RoBERTa was better suited to the regression task, and combining BERT+CNN gave better performance on the classification task. This contrasts with YoungSheldon, who achieved their best results with BERT-Base. Across all cases, we did not observe a single dominant architecture, indicating that the choice of hyperparamaters and task setup played a large role in the results achieved by each team. However, teams like CS-UM6P (Essefar et al., 2021), who contrasted single and multi-task learning setups, found that the latter improved performance.

### 6.4 Other notable approaches

DUTH (Karasakalidis et al., 2021) produced a rigorous examination of different preprocessing approaches applied to data given to linear and neural models. They achieved an impressive 12th place on task 1b, with a combination of Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LGBM), XGBoost and Bayesian Ridge. They also achieved 12th place in task 1c using a combination of features such as POS-tagging, numerical features, a bigram term frequency inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) vectorizer as input to an LGBM model.

The utility of TF-IDF features was also seen in the transfer learning approaches as team hub also found that adding TF-IDF features improved the performance of their ALBERT/BERT+CNN models.

IIITH found that including lexical features such as letter and punctuation counts, named entities marking, identifying personal pronouns, wh-words and question marks, as well as a lexicon of hurtful
