SemEval-2021 Task 7: Leveraging Transformer-based Humorous and Offensive Text Detection Architectures using Lexical and Hurtlex Features along with Task Adaptive Pretraining. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing.*

J. T. Rayz. 2017. In Pursuit of Human-Friendly Interaction with a Computational System: Computational Humor. In *2017 IEEE 15th International Symposium on Applied Machine Intelligence and Informatics (SAMI)*, pages 000015–000020.

Willibald Ruch. 2010. *The Sense of Humor: Explorations of a Personality Characteristic*, volume 3. Walter de Gruyter.

Mayukh Sharma, Ilanthenral Kandasamy, and Vasantha W B. 2021. YoungSheldon at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Fine-tuning Is All You Need. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing.*

Leandro Silva, Mainack Mondal, Denzil Correa, Fabrício Benevenuto, and Ingmar Weber. 2016. Analyzing the Targets of Hate in Online Social Media. In *Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media*, volume 10.

Răzvan-Alexandru Smădu, Dumitru-Clementin Cercel, and Mihai Dascalu. 2021. UPB at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Adversarial Multi-Task Learning for Detecting and Rating Humour and Offence. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing.*

Bingyan Song, Chunguang Pan, Shengguang Wang, and Zhipeng Luo. 2021. DeepBlueAI at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Detecting and Rating Humor and Offense with Stacking Diverse Language Model-Based Methods. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing.*

Christina A Sue and Tanya Golash-Boza. 2013. ‘It Was Only a Joke’: How Racial Humour Fuels Colour-Blind Ideologies in Mexico and Peru. *Ethnic and Racial Studies*, 36(10):1582–1598.

Yu Sun, Shuohuan Wang, Yukun Li, Shikun Feng, Hao Tian, Hua Wu, and Haifeng Wang. 2020. Ernie 2.0: A Continual Pre-training Framework for Language Understanding. In *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*, volume 34, pages 8968–8975.

Julia Taylor and S Attardo. 2017. Computational Treatments of Humor. *The Routledge Handbook of the Linguistics of Humor. New York: Routledge*, pages 456–471.

Julia M Taylor and Lawrence J Mazlack. 2004. Computationally Recognizing Wordplay in Jokes. In *Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society*, volume 26.

Yubo Xie, Junze Li, and Pearl Pu. 2021. HumorHunter at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Humor and Offense Recognition with Disentangled Attention. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing.*

Renxian Zhang and Naishi Liu. 2014. Recognizing Humor on Twitter. In *Proceedings of the 23rd ACM international conference on conference on information and knowledge management*, pages 889–898.
