## Acknowledgments

This work was supported in part by the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Data Science, funded by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (grant EP/L016427/1) and the University of Edinburgh. The authors also wish to thank William J. Toner who acted as a last-minute Idea Bouncer.

## References

Hani Al-Omari, Isra’a AbedulNabi, and Rehab Duwairi. 2021. DLJUST at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Hahackathon: Linking Humor and Offense Across Different Age Groups. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing*.

Miriam Amin and Manuel Burghardt. 2020. A survey on approaches to computational humor generation. In *Proceedings of the The 4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature*, pages 29–41, Online. International Committee on Computational Linguistics.

Salvatore Attardo. 2008. A Primer for the Linguistics of Humor. *The Primer of Humor Research*, 8:101–156.

Emran Al Bashabsheh and Sanaa Abu Alasal. 2021. ES-JUST at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Detecting and Rating Humor and Offensive Text Using Deep Learning. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing*.

Elisa Bassignana, Valerio Basile, and Viviana Patti. 2018. Hurtlex: A multilingual Lexicon of Words to Hurt. In *5th Italian Conference on Computational Linguistics, CLiC-it 2018*, volume 2253, pages 1–6. CEUR-WS.

Christos Baziotis, Nikos Pelekis, and Christos Doulkeridis. 2017. DataStories at SemEval-2017 Task 4: Deep LSTM with Attention for Message-level and Topic-based Sentiment Analysis. In *Proceedings of the 11th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2017)*, pages 747–754, Vancouver, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Santiago Castro, Luis Chiruzzo, and Aiala Rosá. 2018. Overview of the HAHA Task: Humor Analysis Based on Human Annotation at IberEval 2018. In *IberEval@ SEPLN*, pages 187–194.

Luis Chiruzzo, Santiago Castro, Mathias Etcheverry, Diego Garat, Juan José Prada, and Aiala Rosá. 2019. Overview of HAHA at IberLEF 2019: Humor Analysis based on Human Annotation. In *IberLEF@ SEPLN*, pages 132–144.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805*.

Kabil Essefar, Abdellah El Mekki, Abdelkader El Mahdaouy, NABIL El Mamoun, and Ismail Berrada. 2021. CS-UM6P at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Deep Multi-Task Learning Model for Detecting and Rating Humor and Offense. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing*.

Dalya Faraj and Malak Abdullah. 2021. SarcasmDet at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Detect Humor and Offensive based on Demographic Factors using RoBERTa Pre-trained Model. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing*.

Zhengyi Guan. 2021. Tsia at SemEval-2021 Task 7:Detecting and Rating Humor and Offense. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing*.

Akshay Gugnani, Brian Zylich, Gabriel Brookman, and Nicholas Samoray. 2021. Amherst685 at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Joint Modeling of Classification and Regression for Humor and Offense. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing*.

Aishwarya Gupta, Avik Pal, Bholeshwar Khurana, Lakshay Tyagi, and Ashutosh Modi. 2021. Humor@IITK at SemEval-2021 Task 7: Large Language Models for Quantifying Humor and Offensiveness. In *Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing*.

Suchin Gururangan, Ana Marasović, Swabha Swayamdipta, Kyle Lo, Iz Beltagy, Doug Downey, and Noah A. Smith. 2020. Don’t stop pretraining: Adapt language models to domains and tasks. In *Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, pages 8342–8360, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Pengcheng He, Xiaodong Liu, Jianfeng Gao, and Weizhu Chen. 2020. DeBERTa: Decoding-enhanced BERT with Disentangled Attention. *arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.03654*.

Tim Highfield. 2015. Tweeted Joke Lifespans and Appropriated Punchlines: Practices around Topical Humor on Social Media. *International Journal of Communication*, 9:22.
