words (Hurtlex, Bassignana et al., 2018) improved the performance of their task-adaptively pre-trained RoBERTa model for detecting humor and predicting the rating, but that only the Hurtlex features improved offense detection, and neither of these improved controversy prediction.

## 7 Analysis and Discussion

### 7.1 Correlations between Tasks

As Table 9 indicates, humor rating is moderately correlated with humor controversy across the dataset. There are no discernible trends in offense rating and humor controversy. Interestingly, there is a moderate negative correlation between humor and offense rating overall, but this is not significant for the Twitter data, and becomes a much stronger negative correlation when we look at just the Kaggle data. This may have be a factor in the finding that multi-task setups tended to achieve better results that single-task systems. It may also suggest that in naturally occurring data, such as the Twitter texts, the relationship between humor and offense may be more subtle, and therefore more difficult to detect.

| Task 1 | Task 2 | Overall | Twitter | Kaggle |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Humor<br>Rating | Humor<br>Controversy | 0.15<br>$p = 0.0001$ | 0.14<br>$p = 0.003$ | 0.18<br>$p = 0.009$ |
| Offense<br>Rating | Humor<br>Controversy | 0.07<br>$p = 0.06$ | 0.11<br>$p = 0.028$ | -0.02<br>$p = 0.82$ |
| Humor<br>Rating | Offense<br>Rating | -0.156<br>$p = 0.0001$ | -0.03<br>$p = 0.51$ | -0.42<br>$p = 0.0011$ |

Table 9: Correlations between tasks, Pearson’s r and p-value

### 7.2 Differences between Kaggle Texts and Tweets

As seen in tables 5, 6 and 7, the systems’ performance for subtasks 1a, 1b and 1c seems to be consistently better for Kaggle texts than for tweets. One possible reason why systems are better at predicting humor from Kaggle texts, is that the Kaggle test set contains almost all humorous texts, while only about half of the tweets are considered humorous.

On the other hand, performance for task 2 is consistently better (lower RMSE) for tweets than for Kaggle texts, and the differences are sometimes very large. We noticed the distributions of offense ratings between Kaggle texts and tweets are very different, with tweets being more often classified as not offensive: more than 60% of the tweets have 0.1 offense rating or less (in a scale from 0 to 5), while less than 10% of the Kaggle texts do. This difference in distribution might in part come from differences in sampling methods, because some Kaggle texts were specifically selected to have certain offensive categories, while the tweets were selected at random. In order to check if the difference in scores could come from the difference in offense rating distributions, we resampled a subset of tweets from the Kaggle set and another one from the Twitter set, trying to keep a uniform offense rating distribution, and calculated task 2 scores for those subsets. The difference between scores for these new subsets was much lower for all teams, and even some of the teams got better scores for the Kaggle subset, which might be an indication that the sharp differences in score were caused by the difference in distributions.

### 7.3 Error Analysis: Humans and Machines vs Irony

Several interesting issues arise when analyzing the top-ten systems’ errors. Irony continues to be a challenging problem, both at the annotation side, and the classification side. Several texts which were sourced from humorous accounts, and which had just less than a majority of annotator votes for humorous were classed as not-humorous in our dataset. In the following two examples, all of the top-10 systems classed this as humorous, and arguably, they are intended to be humorous, even though the majority of annotators technically did not class them as such.

1. What do you call a homosexual man  
   on a wheel chair?  
   A human being
2. It’s almost like I gotta keep myself  
   busy with random things like fluff-  
   ing pillows just so I don’t over eat.

The first example is an ironic subversion of a homophobic joke, using incongruity to undermine the anticipated punchline. While it is possible that the setup and punchline structure is what misled the system, similar question and answer structures were correctly classified.

The second example is arguably sarcasm, and all of the top systems classified it as humor, even though the annotators did not. However, there were several other texts which were classed as humorous
