**Task 1a: Humor Detection**

This was a binary classification task to detect, given a text, if the majority label assigned to it was humorous or not. This was evaluated using F-score for the humorous class and overall accuracy

$$
Accuracy = \frac{C}{N}
$$

$$
+\text{‘213‘} - *‘F_1 = 2 * \frac{Precision \times Recall}{Precision + Recall}
$$

**Task 1b: Humor Rating Prediction**

This was a humor rating regression task. Participants predicted the average rating given to texts from 0-5. Texts which had not been labelled as humorous by our annotators did not have a humor rating, and predictions for these texts were not counted towards the final score by our scoring system. The metric for this task was root mean squared error (RMSE).

$$
RMSE = \sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n} \left(\frac{y_i - \hat{y_i}}{N}\right)^2}
$$

**Task 1c: Humor Controversy Detection**

This task was also a binary classification task to predict whether the humor ratings given to the text showed it to be controversial or not. This was based on the variance in the ratings being higher or lower than the median variance in the training set humor ratings. This was also evaluated using F-score and accuracy.

**Task 2: Offense Detection**

This was an offense rating regression task. Unlike the humorous task, this rating was not dependent on the text having been labelled as humorous. All annotator ratings were considered, and each text had a rating from 0-5. The metric was RMSE.

## 5 Benchmark Systems

We created simple, linear benchmarks using sklearn (Pedregosa et al., 2011) for the classification tasks which consists of a Naive Bayes classifier with bag of words features. For the regression tasks, we used a support vector regressor with term-frequency inverse document frequency features.

We also built a BERT-base classification/regression model which was run for one epoch, with a batch size of 16 and a learning rate of 5e-5, for all sub-tasks. As this system out-performed the linear benchmarks on all sub-tasks, we refer to this as the baseline in the rest of the paper.

## 6 Participant Systems

### 6.1 Overview

In total 63 teams submitted systems for the different tasks: 58 for task 1a, 50 for task 1b, 36 for task 1c and 48 for task 2. Tables 5, 6, 7 and 8 show the highest results for each task, with performance broken down by subsets of texts from the Kaggle jokes dataset and from Twitter. -*/

| Team | Acc | F1 | Kaggle F1 | Twitter F1 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| PALI | 0.9820 | 0.9854 | 0.9949 | 0.9811 |
| stce | 0.9750 | 0.9797 | 0.9871 | 0.9764 |
| DeepBlueAI | 0.9600 | 0.9676 | 0.9949 | 0.9551 |
| SarcasmDet | 0.9600 | 0.9675 | 0.9949 | 0.9548 |
| mengyuan_jiayi | 0.9590 | 0.9667 | 0.9871 | 0.9574 |
| stevenhuahua | 0.9580 | 0.9666 | 0.9949 | 0.9538 |
| zain | 0.9580 | 0.9663 | 0.9949 | 0.9534 |
| EndTimes | 0.9570 | 0.9655 | 0.9897 | 0.9545 |
| MagicPai | 0.9570 | 0.9653 | 0.9897 | 0.9542 |
| Meizizi | 0.9570 | 0.9653 | 0.9871 | 0.9554 |
| mmmm | 0.9560 | 0.9647 | 0.9923 | 0.9523 |
| *baseline (BERT)* | *0.911* | *0.9283* | *0.9949* | *0.8978* |
| *baseline (Linear)* | *0.8570* | *0.8840* | *0.9792* | *0.8410* |

Table 5: Results of the top performing systems for participants of task 1a (humor detection), showing F1 and accuracy for the whole test set, and F1 for Kaggle texts only and tweets only.

### 6.2 Highest Ranking Systems

The top-ranking teams were selected based on F-score, in the case of a tie in accuracy score. The top-10 made extensive use of pre-trained language models such as BERT, ERNIE 2.0 (Sun et al., 2020), ALBERT (Lan et al., 2019), DeBERTa (He et al., 2020) or RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019). Ensembling these models by majority voting or averaging scores proved to be a popular and useful approach.

| Team | All | Kaggle | Twitter |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| abcbpc | 0.4959 | 0.4544 | 0.5141 |
| mmmm | 0.4977 | 0.4554 | 0.5162 |
| Humor@IITK | 0.5210 | 0.4702 | 0.5430 |
| YoungSheldon | 0.5257 | 0.4587 | 0.5541 |
| IIITH | 0.5263 | 0.4821 | 0.5456 |
| fdabek | 0.5271 | 0.4836 | 0.5462 |
| Amherst685 | 0.5339 | 0.4584 | 0.5656 |
| */ gerald | 0.5393 | 0.4857 | 0.5625 |
| CS-UM6P | 0.5401 | 0.4927 | 0.5608 |
| SarcasmDet | 0.5446 | 0.5001 | 0.5641 |
| *baseline (BERT)* | *0.8000* | *0.4803* | *0.9117* |
| *baseline (SVM)* | *0.8609* | *0.7157* | *0.9205* |

Table 6: Results of the top performing systems for participants of task 1b (humor rating), showing RMSE for whole test set, for Kaggle texts only and tweets only.
