[Figure: Four data statistic plots labeled (a)–(d): a bar chart of video lengths with axes “Video Count” and “Video Length”; donut charts showing distributions for visual-centric groups, humor types, and cultural backgrounds with legends.]

Figure 4: Data statistics: (a) Distribution of video lengths; (b) Distribution of visual-centric groups; (c) Distribution of humor types, where *Others* contains Parody, Satire, Miscellaneous, etc; (d) Distribution of cultural backgrounds, where *Others* covers Middle Eastern and North African, etc.

through an iterative refinement process. In our annotation manual (see Figure 8 in Appendix) for humor explanation, we require that annotators include all the humorous elements they can find, as thoroughly as possible, and explain why these elements make people feel humorous.

### 2.4 Data Analysis

**Duration.** All videos in our final dataset are restricted to a duration of 5–60 seconds, with the majority concentrated within 30 seconds (see Figure 4a). This design ensures that humor is self-contained, sufficiently nuanced, and compatible with the context length limits of most MLLMs.

**Diversity.** To show v-HUB contains a variety of humor, we follow Buijzen and Valkenburg (2004) to categorize videos into five categories by humor type (see Figure 4c), and follow House et al. (2004) and Ronen and Shenkar (2013) to categorize videos into six categories by cultural background (see Figure 4d). The illustrations demonstrate that v-HUB covers a wide range of humor types and cultural backgrounds, thus it is sufficiently diverse.

**Visual-centric.** After all filtering processes, we were left with 1218 videos, including 267 silent humor clips from Charlie Chaplin and 951 user-generated short funny videos from the Internet. The total duration of the videos is 4.7h, and the average duration is around 14s. All of them rely on the visual modality to express humor. We identify two key modalities that dominate the delivery of humor: visuals and audio. Apart from 722 videos (59%) conveying humor primarily via pure visual cues (denoted by ‘Visual’), 137 videos (11%) contain additional linguistic cues in visual form—such as embedded captions and subtitles (denoted by ‘Visual+Text’)—that extend humor, 256 video humor (21%) is enhanced by additional sound that covers non-speech auditory elements, such as background music and sound effects(denoted by ‘Visual+Audio’), and 94 videos (8%) convey humor through visuals, sound, and visual text (denoted by ‘Visual+Audio+Text’). The video distribution over the four groups is illustrated in Figure 4b.

**Consensus Evaluation.** For annotations like humor explanation and video description, the second and third annotators reviewed and modified previous annotations to ensure consistency. We employ Krippendorff’s alpha (Krippendorff, 2011) to assess the annotators’ consensus on the humor evaluation, using ‘Low,’ ‘Medium,’ and ‘High’ to indicate the strength of the consensus. In v-HUB, more than 90% of data demonstrated a ‘High’ consensus, while only 0.3% showed a ‘Low’ consensus.

## 3 v-HUB: A Visual-Centric Video Humor Understanding Benchmark

### 3.1 Evaluation Tasks

To comprehensively evaluate the capability of MLLMs in humor understanding, we propose three tasks that reflect different aspects of humor reasoning: Caption Matching, Humor Explanation, and Open-ended QA:

- **Caption Matching.** In this discriminative task, models must correctly associate videos with their corresponding captions. Unlike ordinary caption matching tasks, our design challenges MLLMs to go beyond surface-level matching and assess their ability to understand video humor that is pronounced by *creative captions* from a generation perspective. For each video with a creative caption, we randomly sample four *descriptive captions* from other videos as the distractors.

- **Humor Explanation.** In this generative task,
