# A Crowdworking Details

## A.1 Processing and Filtering

**Harmful Content Detection.** Before the annotation process began, we manually filtered out videos that contained potentially harmful content to ensure the video data’s safety and quality (Figure 6 visualizes our annotation interface). Based on the criteria outlined by Thoppilan et al. (2022), we defined 6 categories of harmful contents, following aspects are checked for each video.

- *Discrimination.* Videos that display discrimination based on race, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, appearance (e.g., obesity), or religion.

- *Animal Cruelty.* Videos that depict the abuse or mistreatment of animals.

- *Dangerous Activities.* Videos that include dangerous content such as drug use, criminal behavior, bullying, terrorism, rumor propagation, incitement, or misinformation.

- *Physical Violence.* Videos containing acts of physical violence against individuals, including fighting, severe injuries, bleeding, self-harm, or torture.

- *Obscenities.* Videos that contain explicit language, sexual behavior, or suggestive content.

- *Shocking Content.* Videos that include startling or fear-inducing elements such as gunshots, explosions, or jump scares.

In addition to harmful content detection, videos are also evaluated based on their quality:

- *Confusing:* Videos that are incomplete or otherwise difficult to understand.

- *Low Resolution:* Videos with a level of clarity that makes it challenging to discern the content.

**Chaplin Video Segmentation.** We selected 62 silent films by Charlie Chaplin and hired annotators to meticulously review each film, manually recording humorous moments to ensure each mime clip illustrates a whole mime through a single event or multi events. And we removed videos where both the reason for the humor and the action were repetitive (e.g. humor arising from a comical action due to inflexibility, such as failing to position a ladder properly) to ensure the quality and consistency of the videos and their annotations.

**Speech Reliance Minimization.** To ensure reliable identification of humorous content, we instructed two annotators to independently review each video and confirm the presence of clear humor. Each annotator was also instructed to review each video and label whether humor was primarily conveyed through visual cues and could be understood independently of speech. Only videos for which both annotators agreed were retained for the final dataset. We further employed Whisper (Radford et al., 2023), a performant speech-to-text model, to transcribe audio. Since Whisper transcribes filler sounds (e.g., “uh,” “hmm”) and other minimal utterances, we excluded any videos where the transcribed text exceeded 10 characters. Additionally, videos containing non-English speech were retained but muted, removing dependence on linguistic cues.

## A.2 Annotation

**Annotator Training.** We provided appropriate annotation training for crowdworkers, offering detailed explanations of the annotation platform’s usage and the annotation guidelines for different tasks. Additionally, we supplied an annotation manual (Figure 8) and corresponding instructional videos, which included specific descriptions and examples of the annotation requirements for crowdworkers to consult at any time during the annotation process.

**Qualification.** The recruited crowdworkers were mainly from China, all possessing at least an undergraduate education and with English background. Before formal annotation began, we conducted training sessions and a qualification review. During the qualification stage, crowdworkers were required to annotate 15 video samples. We manually reviewed their results and assigned scores based on the annotation guidelines. Ultimately, we selected eight qualified annotators. And we provided fair compensation to all crowdworkers, ensuring their hourly wages exceeded the local minimum wage.

For the annotation process, we adopted a three-person collaborative annotation scheme, ensuring that each data entry underwent three rounds of annotation. First, an annotator performed the initial annotation. Next, a second annotator reviewed and supplemented the annotation. Finally, a third annotator reviewed and further refined the previous two rounds of annotations. The annotators rotated through these three roles, and each annotation round was tracked to ensure that the three rounds
