across video and language in the same language space (Wang et al., 2024b; Liu et al., 2024; Lin et al., 2023). Early video LLMs employ pre-trained image encoder and video encoder to encode only video frames (Zhang et al., 2023; Maaz et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023; Lin et al., 2023). Recent works augment video LLMs with an audio encoder to align visual, auditory, and textual modalities in the same language space. Moreover, the audio encoder is supposed to capture diverse environmental sound apart from human speech since sound has been shown to contain amounts of commonsense knowledge (Cheng et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2025).

**Video LLMs.** Video LLMs have shown remarkable performance in many traditional video processing tasks such as video captioning (Xu et al., 2016; Agrawel et al., 2019; Plummer et al., 2017), video question answering (Antol et al., 2015; Xiao et al., 2021; Yu et al., 2019; Fu et al., 2025), and grounding (Kazemzadeh et al., 2014; Wu et al., 2022). However, most existing benchmarks primarily target general video understanding tasks, such as MVBench (Li et al., 2024), Video-MME (Fu et al., 2025), PerceptionTest (Patraucean et al., 2023), MLVU (Zhou et al., 2025), and LVBench (Wang et al., 2024c), which mainly assess the recognition of basic visual cues across videos of varying lengths. Others are designed to evaluate specific video understanding capabilities, including temporal grounding (Gao et al., 2017; Lei et al., 2021; Hendricks et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2024d), video object detection (Shang et al., 2019, 2017), and video hallucination (Wang et al., 2024e; Leng et al., 2024). But there remains a pressing need for benchmarks that evaluate higher-level cognitive abilities, such as social intelligence, to better measure the gap between human and MLLMs’ performance.

Our work narrows this gap. We expand the evaluation spectrum of video LLMs by introducing a challenging evaluation framework for humor understanding, formulating a humor generation task, and presenting the first comprehensive humor-centric evaluation and analysis.

**Humor Video Understanding.** Humor understanding is a popular research topic of artificial intelligence and its roots in cognitive science (Hampes, 2001, 2010). While early works focus on verbal humor like jokes and sarcasm, (Chopicki, 2005; Petrović and Matthews, 2013; Joshi et al., 2017), the advent of LLMs has extended this scope to multimodal humor with image-language and video-language humor (Hessel et al., 2022; Alnajjar et al., 2022). However, a parallel evaluation of video LLMs is still limited.

While there have been several video-based humor datasets, the humor within them either is primarily dominated by spoken dialogue (Kumar et al., 2022; Hyun et al., 2024) or is restricted to those that can only be understood when both visual and linguistic cues are present (Ko et al., 2023), ignoring the fact that humans can appreciate humor solely from visuals. HumorQA (Xie et al., 2024) is most similar to ours, but it is restricted to surprising videos only and has an average duration of 7 seconds; consequently, it is limited in coverage and temporal complexity and is insufficient for humor-centric video understanding evaluation. Moreover, it overlooked environmental sound that generally enhances humor. In contrast, we focus on humor understanding and cover more diverse video humor, with an average duration twice that of HumorQA.

Sound has been found informative of commonsense (Zhao et al., 2022; Zellers et al., 2022), and it has been shown that integrating textual, acoustic, and visual features significantly improves humor detection accuracy (Chandrasekaran et al., 2016; Hasan et al., 2019). Since multimodal LLMs have recently been extended to natively support audio processing (aka. OmniLLMs), we propose and conduct a first evaluation of MLLMs on video humor understanding that involves environmental sound.

## 6 Conclusion

We have introduced v-Hub, a video humor understanding benchmark from vision and sound. v-HUB is designed to assess and diagnose the capability of MLLMs for video humor understanding. Each video is annotated with captions, descriptions, explanations, etc., supporting evaluation tasks such as caption matching, humor explanation, and open-ended QA. We evaluated a diverse range of MLLMs, spanning open-sourced and proprietary domains and covering specialized video LLMs and versatile OmniLLMs. Our findings reveal that current MLLMs heavily rely on linguistic cues for humor understanding, but are weak in deriving nuanced visual cues for understanding sophisticated video humor. Moreover, we empirically find that including environmental sound helps with humor understanding, highlighting the informativeness of sound and the promise of incorporating rich modalities for complex video reasoning tasks.
