**Table 1:** Humor understanding benchmark comparison. Modality indicates the modalities used for humor understanding, where T, V, and A denote text, visual, and audio, respectively. Our v-HUB is *visual-centric*, as it contains humor derived predominantly from visual cues (V) and enhanced by environmental sound (A).

| Dataset | Type | Source | Average Duration | Modality | Explanation | Matching | Open-ended QA |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| NYCC (Hessel et al., 2022) | Cartoon | New Yorker Caption Contests | — | T, V | ✓ | ✓ | ✗ |
| Ogiri-GO (Zhong et al., 2024) | Images | Ogiri Game | — | T, V | ✗ | ✓ | ✗ |
| MUStARD (Castro et al., 2019) | Sitcom | TV Shows | 19 sec. | T, V, A | ✗ | ✓ | ✗ |
| WITS (Kumar et al., 2022) | Sitcom | TV Shows | 17 sec. | T, V, A | ✗ | ✓ | ✗ |
| UR-FUNNY (Hasan et al., 2019) | Speech | TED Talks | 20 sec. | T, V, A | ✗ | ✓ | ✗ |
| SMILE (Hyun et al., 2024) | Sitcom, Speech | TV Shows, TED Talks | 28 sec. | T, V, A | ✓ | ✗ | ✗ |
| ExFunTube (Ko et al., 2023) | Short videos | Youtube | 16 sec. | T, V, A | ✓ | ✗ | ✗ |
| HumorQA (Xie et al., 2024) | Surprising videos | Youtube | 7 sec. | T, V, A | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ |
| **v-HUB (ours)** | Short videos,<br>**Silent comedies** | X, Youtube,<br>Charlie Chaplin’s **silent films** | **14 sec.** | V, A | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ |

Figure1b requires recognizing visual text (or background music) and the layout of chat bubbles and understanding their temporal and semantic correspondences with the cut surface of the cake slice.

While there have been a few benchmarks on video humor understanding (see Table 1), most of them are designed exclusively for the evaluation of LLMs (Ko et al., 2023; Hyun et al., 2024),^1 and the curated humor is dominated by linguistic cues, ignoring the fact that humans can understand humor from visual cues alone, exemplified by silent comedies. Though Xie et al. (2024) have conducted a humor understanding evaluation of MLLMs, the evaluation is limited in coverage and temporal complexity. Moreover, as an important component of non-verbal humor, environmental sound has been overlooked in their data curation and evaluation.

To address these limitations, we curate a set of visual-centric humorous videos from two complementary sources: Charlie Chaplin’s silent films and user-generated short funny videos. Silent film humor is conveyed through visual cues, but is thematically and culturally constrained due to the scripted performance. To increase diversity, we incorporate user-generated funny short videos from various occasions and cultural backgrounds. We rigorously filtered the videos to retain only those where the humor has no reliance on speech and has a duration longer than 5 seconds. Our final dataset consists of videos where humor is derived predominantly from the visual modality, making it visual-centric and better suited for evaluating MLLMs, including variants that can natively process audio.^2

To assess how well MLLMs understand humor in video, we create v-HUB, a video humor understanding benchmark. v-HUB offers two typical evaluation tasks for humor understanding. (1) First, the *Caption Matching* task challenges MLLMs to align video captions with the corresponding videos. (2) Second, the *Humor Explanation* task evaluates whether MLLMs can extract humor elements and provide accurate rationales. To broaden the applicability of v-HUB, we further construct (3) an *Open-ended QA* task that evaluates the MLLMs’ fundamental understanding of videos from the humor genre across temporal, descriptive, and causal dimensions. Together, these tasks provide a comprehensive framework to benchmark MLLMs in visual-centric humor understanding.

We evaluate representative MLLMs from both open- and closed-source domains. Depending on the input modalities, we consider the following three task settings. (1) The *Text-Only* setting assumes human-level interpretation of video contents and provides detailed human-written descriptions. (2) The *Video-Only* setting offers only videos (without audio) to assess the ability of MLLMs to derive humor solely from visual cues. (3) We further propose a novel *Video+Audio* setting that combines visual and auditory signals to determine whether sound cues—such as background music and sound effects—help MLLMs (aka. OmniLLMs) better understand humor.

We empirically find that MLLMs generally perform better with text-only inputs than with video-only inputs. For example, Qwen2.5-VL drops in accuracy from 0.726 to 0.666 on *Caption Matching*, indicating its struggles in capturing subtle visual cues for humor understanding. Adding audio yields notable improvements across most OmniLLMs. For instance, MiniCPM2.6-o improves from 0.362 to 0.442 in accuracy on *Caption Matching*, though it still lags behind the text-only setting. Overall,

^1 They translated videos into language descriptions and performed verbal humor evaluation with LLMs.  
^2 In this work, audio primarily refers to environmental sound rather than human speech (see Section 2.2).
