provide free-text reasoning before delivering the final answer in the same structured format. In what follows, we describe the prompt configurations used. Validation experiments with alternative prompts, along with the exact prompts we adopted, are detailed in Appendix §A.1.

**Zero-Shot.** (0S) This prompt asks to provide a “Yes” or “No” answer on whether the text contains a pun, with no formal definition of a pun.

**Few-Shot.** (FS) A definition of pun is provided, including the concepts of $w_p$, $w_a$, $s_p$, and $s_a$, followed by six examples (three puns, three non-puns) drawn from the same set used by Xu et al. (2024). Examples are held constant across experiments.

**Words.** (W) Same as *Few-Shot* prompt, but requires reporting the pun pair as justification.

**Words+Senses.** (W+S) This prompt mirrors the *Words* prompt, but additionally requires reporting $s_p$ and $s_a$ after the pun pair.

**Reasoning.** (R+) This configuration uses the same prompts, but allows the generation of arbitrary text before the final answer. This prompt is applied only to the five non-reasoning LLMs.

## 4 RQ1: Can LLMs Detect Puns?

The first research question investigates LLMs’ overall performance in binary pun detection. We thus evaluate all comparison LLMs described in §3.2 using the prompting strategies outlined in §3.3.

### 4.1 Data

In addition to the PunEval and JOKER datasets described in §3.1, we annotate a new collection of 128 puns from various sources, including websites², personal recollections, and original creations. The main reason for creating this new dataset was to avoid any potential contamination from existing datasets. Each pun is rephrased into a non-pun, similar to the JOKER dataset, but without the requirement of replacing a single word, resulting in a total of 256 instances. We use Mistral3 for this rephrasing process, and all generated samples are manually inspected and modified as needed. We refer to this as the *Newly Annotated Puns* (NAP) dataset. A sample pun and its corresponding non-pun are shown in Example 1, while general NAP statistics are included in Appendix §B. Finally, we also annotate each pun with its pun pair ($w_p$, $w_a$)

|  |
|---|
| **Original Pun** |
| What did the buffalo say to his son? Bison (*Bye son*). |
| **Rephrased pun** |
| What did the buffalo ask his son? I do not know. |

Example 1: A pun and non-pun from the NAP dataset.

and respective senses ($s_p$, $s_a$), using short definitions from online dictionaries³. This process is consistent with the methods employed in the SemEval and PunEval datasets, and these annotations will be used to address RQ3.

### 4.2 Results

The average F1-score for these datasets across 3 runs is shown in Table 1. Additional results can be found in the Appendix (see Table 7 and Fig. 9). All LLMs achieved F1-scores around 0.8 on the NAP dataset with the best prompting strategy. GPT-4o performed the best, while Mistral had the lowest scores. Notably, Mistral only performed well in the zero-shot setting and struggled to learn from additional context in the prompt.

Results on the JOKER dataset show a similar trend but are slightly more challenging for all models. This is likely due to its method of creating non-puns by replacing a single word, resulting in more “adversarial” examples. In contrast, in the NAP dataset, we rephrased puns into non-puns, potentially replacing or removing multiple words.

Aside from Mistral, which consistently performs poorly on our new datasets, the W/W+S prompts — which require LLMs to justify each decision with a rationale — achieve the highest performance, with an average improvement of +3% in F1-score compared to the few-shot configuration (more details in Appendix §C). This finding aligns with previous research (Sun et al., 2022a) that shows explanations can enhance pun detection performance. However, the reasoning prompt did not yield significant improvements over the rationale-augmented prompts (W and W+S) on the NAP and JOKER datasets. Overall, the strong performance suggests that LLMs can understand puns to some extent and benefit from jointly detecting and explaining.

**Embedding Space Analysis.** In addition to the comparison LLMs, we also include a RoBERTa-large encoder model (Liu et al., 2019) that has been

² https://parade.com/1024249/marynliles/funny-puns

³ https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com
