# A Experimental Details

Throughout all experiments, the temperature was set to 0 to ensure more deterministic outputs, while the beam search decoding strategy was used for models that support it (beam size = 2). RoBERTa-large[^4] was trained on the PunEval training split for max 4 epochs with early stopping on the validation set, based on F1-score. We use a batch size of 32 and a learning rate of $1.5e^{-5}$.

For testing, we utilized hosted instances of Llama 3.3-70B, Mistral, DeepSeek-R1-DistilLlama, and Gemini 2.0-Flash through OpenRouter[^5]. The RoBERTa model was fine-tuned on a local server using the latest dumps available on Hugging Face.

For the embedding space analysis, we averaged token embeddings to obtain a sentence-level representation for each sample, preferring this strategy over CLS token embeddings, as the CLS token is not used during RoBERTa pre-training. Clusters representing patterns were identified using DBSCAN (Ester et al., 1996) with UMAP (Healy and McInnes, 2024) for dimensionality reduction. We employed k-nearest neighbor (kNN) to determine the optimal eps hyperparameter.

## A.1 Prompts

The final prompts utilized are reported below. Table 5 presents a comparison of performance with other prompting strategies based on the validation split of the PunEval dataset using GPT-4o, the best-performing LLM. The +ZC prompts refer to those used with the Zero-shot CoT strategy. We edited the original prompt by removing all examples and instructing the models to "think step by step." We first asked them to produce reasoning and then to output the final answer. Since the performance was very similar to the reasoning (+R) prompt, we preferred the latter, as it allowed for a single prompt call instead of two. The RATIONALE and BASE prompts refer to the initial prompts that utilized JSON formatting for output. This strategy did not work well for smaller models, leading to the adoption of our custom prompting format, showcased in Figs. 7,6,5,4.

| Prompt | F1-score |
|---|---:|
| Final prompts | |
| 0s | 90.2 |
| FS | **95.6** |
| W | 93.9 |
| W+S | 89.7 |
| JSON prompts | |
| JSON-W+S | **87.1** |
| JSON-0s | 85.0 |
| Reasoning and Zero-shot CoT | |
| FS+R | **95.1** |
| W+R | 93.3 |
| W+S+R | 93.3 |
| FS+ZC | 91.4 |
| W+ZC | 88.3 |
| W+S+ZC | 87.7 |

Table 5: F1-score of GPT-4o over different versions of prompts tried.

## A.2 Keywords Evaluation

The output of the automatic evaluation indicates how many correct words the model produces in the rationale. During the evaluation process, both pun pairs are tokenized, lemmatized, and stripped of punctuation, with the overlap between each pair serving as the scoring metric. A score of 2 is assigned only if both $w'_p$ and $w'_a$ correctly match the true pun pair. A score of 1 is given if only one is correct, while a score of 0 is assigned if both are incorrect. This evaluation is conducted both with and without lemmatization, retaining the maximum score to mitigate issues arising from incorrect lemmatization. Pun words and alternative words are lemmatized using SpaCy, specifically the en_core_web_lg model[^6].

## A.3 Error Analysis

For our error analysis, we sample 80 examples from the set of false positives identified in the results on the PunBreak dataset (which has the worst overall performance), sampling from results using the W+S prompt, which provides the most expressive rationale. Given that we have 200 examples for each of the four substitution categories, this represents 10% of the dataset size.

We hired five native English speakers from various backgrounds based on their expertise in corpus annotation. Specifically, the group consists of three men and two women who are students at our university, ranging from undergraduate to postgraduate levels.

The annotators were asked to answer 7-9 multiple-choice questions assessing the reasonableness of the models’ responses for each selected

[^4]: https://huggingface.co/FacebookAI/roberta-large

[^5]: https://openrouter.ai

[^6]: https://spacy.io/models/en
