In our study, we asked an AI agent to analyze short texts, some containing puns and some not, and to identify the words and senses that create the *pun effect*.

In the following quiz, you will see a selection of non-puns that the AI agent classified as puns. Your job is answering 9 questions to help us evaluate <u>how wrong the AI agent’s answers are</u>.

## Definitions

- ***Expression.*** An expression can be a single word, such as “car” or “beach”, or it can contain multiple words. Examples of these include phrasal verbs such as “put up with”, or polywords such as “ice cream”, and “run-through”.
- ***Sense.*** A meaning or interpretation of an expression. By *interpretation* we intend a <u>legitimate reading</u> of an expression that is not necessarily its definition. For example, two interpretations of “parrot” are (1) “*a species of tropical birds*”, (2) “*a play on word on ‘carrot’*” (this interpretation can be reasonable in certain contexts because the two words are similar). Conversely, the sense “*a colorful dress*” would not be considered a valid interpretation.
- ***Support.*** In this evaluation, we discuss the concept of support in relation to expressions and their senses. Polysemous expressions can only be disambiguated if the <u>context supports the intended meaning</u>. We say that a pun is “supported” if some contextual clues in the sentence facilitate the perception of the two senses that create the pun effect. For instance, consider the previous pun “*The plot to his story of the pond was quite shallow*”. What would happen if we replace “pond” with “mountain”?

  <em>The plot to his story of the <strong>mountain</strong> was quite shallow.</em>

  Now, the sense “*lacking physical depth*” cannot be perceived anymore, as the context does not support it. In the original text, “pond” evokes this specific meaning, but words related to “water”, such as “lake” or “river,” could also work.
- ***Relationship between words.*** You will be asked to identify relationships in terms of *orthography* (spelling) or *phonetics* (sound).  
  For example, in the previous heterographic pun, the words “<u>sheepishly</u>” and “<u>sheep</u>” share the same root, indicating an *orthographic and phonetic similarity*. Additionally, the words “sheep” and “ship” can also be considered similar in both regards.  
  In homographic examples, you may be asked to rate the relationship/similarity between the same word (*e.g.*, between “shallow” and “shallow”). In such cases, the similarity is trivially present, as the two words are identical.
