| Structure | Short name | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Old [...] never die [...] they | never_die | OLD BANKERS never die they just lose interest |
| Tom | tom | “I’ve been to a film festival in Southern France” said Tom cannily |
| When the | when | When the TV repairman got married the reception was excellent |
| She was only [...] daughter but | daughter | She was only a horseman’s daughter, but she didn’t know how to say neigh |
| Doctor, Doctor | doctor | Doctor, Doctor, I keep thinking I’m a spoon. - Sit there and don’t stir |
| used to [...] but | used | I used to be addicted to soap, but I’m clean now |

Table 8: Pun language patterns and their occurrences in the PunEval dataset.

| Pattern | PunEval (train) | PunEval (test) | PunEval (val) | NAP | JOKER | PunBreak |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| never_die | 65 | 62 | 1 | 2 | 12 | 50 |
| tom | 61 | 61 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 15 |
| when | 13 | 20 | 0 | 0 | 22 | 5 |
| daughter | 11 | 19 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 15 |
| doctor | 3 | 7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| used | 2 | 4 | 1 | 2 | 10 | 10 |

Table 9: Occurrences of pun language patterns in all the datasets.

never_die, and doctor patterns, results for the other patterns are more varied. For instance, GPT-4o, Qwen2.5, and Mistral3 are more resilient to the daughter pattern compared to the other models. Interestingly, examples containing the word “Tom” produce both false positives and negatives, suggesting that this pattern is unlikely to serve as a reliable shortcut for classifying puns. In contrast, sentences beginning with “When the” are classified more reliably by all models.

### C.4 RQ2: Pun Alterations

Table 11 contains the performance (recall) on the substitution categories for each prompt. For the “Pun” column, the recall is computed for class 1 (pun), while for the other columns, recall is relative to class 0 (non-pun). The “Rand sent” column represents the set of 100 generated non-puns used to control for unseen bias toward class 1 (pun). The highest values for each model are highlighted in bold.

**Model confidence.** We observe that, on most substitution categories in the PunBreak dataset, the standard deviation between measurements is significantly higher compared to the examples of positive (i.e., pun) and random sentences (`rand sent`). This indicates that models are less confident when classifying altered puns. To further investigate this, we retrieve the confidence values for the responses across the entire dataset. Specifically, we collect the log probabilities for the “yes” or “no” tokens.

[Figure: Bar charts showing “Precision” and “Recall” by model (Gemini2.0, GPT-4o, Llama3.3, Mistral3, Qwen2.5, R1-D, R1). Legend titled “Pattern or data” with labels daughter, doctor, never_die, tom, used, when, PunEval.]

Figure 11: Precision and recall on the PunnyPattern dataset using the best prompt (all patterns).
