**Original pun**

I used to be a comedian, but my life became a <u>joke</u> (*joke*).

**Rephrased pun**

I used to be a comedian, but my life became <u>chaotic</u>.

Example 2: A pun with a common pun language pattern and a derived non-pun.

amples and their frequencies, are listed in Tables 8 and 9 in the Appendix. While their presence has been noted previously (Ermakova et al., 2023a), no detailed analysis of their effects has been provided. In the PunEval test split, 171 out of 173 samples that contain these patterns are puns. Excluding them results in a 2-3% drop in F1-score and a 2-6% drop in precision across all models compared to the full test split, confirming that the presence of these recognizable patterns can inflate performance. To further investigate this issue, we created a new benchmark to test robustness against this bias.

### 5.1.1 Data

For each of the six extracted patterns, we sampled 100 puns from the PunEval test split that contain the same expression, supplementing with new examples collected from the Internet or generated using GPT-4o (verified manually) as needed to complete the set. More details on this collection are reported in Appendix §B.1. We also generated an equal number of verified non-pun sentences using GPT-4o (with human oversight), ensuring they contain the same expression. The resulting dataset, referred to as the *PunnyPattern* dataset, contains 1,200 samples, two of which are presented in Example 2.

### 5.1.2 Results

Table 2 compares the average performance metrics over 3 runs between the entire PunnyPattern dataset and the PunEval dataset. More detailed results for each language pattern can be found in the Appendix (see Table 10 and Fig. 11). Overall, there is an average drop of 16-23% in precision and 4-13% in F1 on the PunnyPattern dataset across all models. Additionally, we observe a sharp imbalance of low precision and high recall for some of the patterns (see Fig. 11), which indicates LLMs are prone to identifying puns whenever they observe a typical pun-like pattern. These results suggest that most LLMs tend to process certain patterns somewhat superficially, lacking understanding of the underlying principles of well-crafted puns.

| Model | F1 | Precision | Recall |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Gemini2.0 | 76.9 (-12.2) | 66.7 (-20.9) | 91.6 (+0.9) |
| GPT-4o | **83.1** (-4.2) | **79.7** (-18.2) | 88.1 (+9.4) |
| Llama3.3 | 81.0 (-6.2) | 71.5 (-16.4) | 94.2 (+7.7) |
| Mistral3 | 77.4 (-3.4) | 72.1 (-14.8) | 87.5 (+11.9) |
| Qwen2.5 | 79.7 (-7.1) | 74.1 (-19.3) | 87.5 (+6.5) |
| R1-D | 78.3 (-10.0) | 66.9 (-18.7) | 94.8 (+3.7) |
| R1 | 81.1 (-10.2) | 69.5 (-15.9) | **98.3** (+0.3) |

Table 2: F1-score, precision, and recall (%) on the best prompt on PunnyPattern and the absolute performance difference with the PunEval dataset.

## 5.2 Pun Alterations

Motivated by our previous results, we investigate whether LLMs exhibit robustness to simple alterations of puns designed to ruin them. For humans, the pun effect relies on the perception of two well-supported senses that create ambiguity and contrast. Therefore, replacing the pun word ($w_p$) with a lexical unit that fails to convey this duplicity would result in the loss of such effect, and the failure of the intended pun.

### 5.2.1 Data

To systematically investigate LLMs’ understanding of this phenomenon, we replace the pun word $w_p$ with multiple alternative expressions and measure their ability to classify “ruined” puns. To this end, we randomly select 100 heterographic and 100 homographic puns from the NAP and PunEval datasets and modify each pun with four different substitutions:

- `Pun syn`: a synonym or hypernym of the pun word $w_p$, different in phonetics and orthography.
- `Alt syn`: as above, but for the alternative word $w_a$.
- `Homophone`: a nonsensical expression phonetically similar to $w_p$.
- `Random`: a nonsensical random word.

Additionally, we include 100 randomly generated sentences (non-puns) as a control group, resulting in a total of 1,100 examples, which we refer to as the *PunBreak* dataset. A complete set of substitutions is shown in Example 3, and more details on the generation procedure are in Appendix §B.2. Note that while some non-sensical replacements may be humorous due to the absurdity of the resulting sentences, they do not represent valid puns.
