**W (*system*)**

/* Definition */  
Puns are a type of wordplay that use words with multiple meanings or similar-sounding words to create humor by juxtaposing these different meanings. Non-puns are jokes or statements that do not rely on this kind of wordplay. A pun is created by a pair of words or short expressions, referred to as "w_p" (the pun word) and "w_a" (the alternative word), which together create a humorous effect. Note that "w_p" and "w_a" must be the minimal text spans that create the pun. Depending on the type of pun, either "w_p" equals "w_a", or only "w_p" appears in the text, with "w_a" being evoked by the context. Each of these expressions, "w_p" and "w_a", carries its own meanings, denoted as "s_p" and "s_a" respectively, and these meanings are supported by a set of contextual words.  
/* Instruction */  
You are a helpful assistant tasked with analyzing texts to determine if they contain a pun or not. You must first answer with ’yes’ if the given text is a pun and ’no’ if it is a non-pun. If you think it is a pun, you must also justify your answer by providing "w_p" and "w_a".

**W+S (*user*)**

You must answer with ’yes’ if the given text is a pun and ’no’ if it is a non-pun. If you think it is a pun, you must also justify your answer by providing the words, or short expressions, "w_p" and "w_a". Note that "w_p" and "w_a" must be the minimal text spans that create the pun, or empty strings if the text is a non-pun. Please provide your answer in one line using the following formats: ’yes \<w_p> \<w_a>’ for puns and ’no \<> \<>’ for non-puns. Do not add any additional text or characters.  
/* Examples */  
Text: A carpenter sat on his drill and was bored to tears.  
Output: yes \<bored> \<bored>  
Text: Don’t kill the goose that lays the golden eggs?  
Output: no \<> \<>  
Text: He’s dead Jim. Grab his tricorder. I’ll get his wallet!  
Output: no \<> \<>  
Text: The whistling fisherman was always out of tuna.  
Output: yes \<tuna> \<tune>  
Text: Better go about than fall into the ditch.  
Output: no \<> \<>  
Text: **INPUT TEXT** Output:

Figure 5: W system and user prompts.
