# Annotator’s Guidelines

## Pun Explanation - Error Analysis

**Task Introduction........................................................................................................ 1**  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Backgroun................................................................................................................ 1  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Definitions.................................................................................................................2  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Instructions................................................................................................................3  
**Questions with Examples............................................................................................4**

# Task Introduction

*Welcome!* Thank you for participating in this study.

Your responses will contribute to an **error analysis** that examines how Artificial Intelligence (AI) explains the use of puns in short English texts.

Please **read the following sections carefully** before proceeding to the questions.

# Background

*Puns* are a type of wordplay that exploits words with multiple meanings or similar-sounding words for humorous or rhetorical effect. The *pun effect* is created by the greatly accelerated perception of two different senses of an expression.

For example, in the sentence *“You lamb! said Tom <u>sheepishly</u>”*, there is a pun because “sheepishly” can be interpreted as “in an embarrassed manner” while also evoking “sheep” referring to the “woolly ruminant mammal”.

Another example is *“The plot to his story of the pond was quite <u>shallow</u>”*, where the word “shallow” can be interpreted in the sense of “lacking physical depth” and “lacking depth of intellect or knowledge”.

The first sentence contains a **heterographic pun**, as “sheepishly” and “sheep” are different words. The second example features a **homographic pun**, where the same word “shallow” is used in two different senses.
