**G.** Can you recognize a relationship or similarity between $\mathbf{w_p'}$ and $\mathbf{w_a'}$ in terms of  
*orthography* (spelling)?

Examples:

**TEXT:** *A parrot flies, a coconut rolls.*

- Can you recognize a relationship or similarity between “parrot” and “barrow” in terms of *phonetics* (pronunciation)?
  - Answer: **Yes** [however, this can be subjective]
- Can you recognize a relationship or similarity between “parrot” and “carrot” in terms of *orthography* (spelling)?
  - Answer: **Yes**

---

Finally, the last questions (H, I) ask you to decide if a pun is present in the text or not.

**H.** Do you think the text contains a pun involving $\mathbf{w_p'}$ and $\mathbf{w_a'}$?  
If you think no pun is present, answer 0. If you think there is a pun, rate the quality of the pun from 1 (very poor) to 5 (very effective). If you don’t know, skip this question.

**I.** Do you think the text contains any puns involving words or expressions NOT previously mentioned?  
If so, write down the words or expressions that produce the pun, separated by commas. Otherwise, skip this question.

Examples:

**TEXT:** *Time flies like an arrow, fruit lies like a banana.*

- Do you think the text contains a pun involving ”lies” and “flies”?  
  If you think no pun is present, answer 0. If you think there is a pun, rate the quality of the pun from 1 (very poor) to 5 (very effective). If you don’t know, skip this question.
  - Answer: **0** [the word “lies” does not make any sense in the sentence, so the pun does not work]

**TEXT:** *What do you call a movie about a parrot mocking a topic? A parrot-y.*

- Do you think the text contains a pun involving ”parrot-y” and “parody”?  
  If you think no pun is present, answer 0. If you think there is a pun, rate the quality of the pun from 1 (very poor) to 5 (very effective). If you don’t know, skip this question.
  - Answer: **5** [“parod-y” and “parroty” both make sense in the sentence, so there is a good pun]
