# Questions with Examples

Here is the list of questions asked for each short text, along with some examples of possible answers.  
To help clarify the task, some answers include justifications for the responses in brackets [], but keep in mind that some answers might be subjective.  
Please **read these examples carefully.**

---

The first two questions (A, B) are meant to determine if any expression ($w_p' / w_a'$) is associated with a legitimate interpretation, <u>regardless</u> of whether each expression is part of a pun.

**A.** Is $s_p'$ a possible interpretation of **$w_p'$** (irrespective of it being a pun or not)?  
**B.** Is $s_a'$ a possible interpretation of **$w_a'$** (irrespective of it being a pun or not)?

Examples:

- Is “a species of tropical birds” a possible interpretation of “parrot” (irrespective of it being a pun or not)?
  - Answer: **Yes**
- Is “one who imitates the words or actions of another, especially without understanding them” a possible interpretation of “parrot” (irrespective of it being a pun or not)?
  - Answer: **Yes** [this is a possible figurative interpretation of the word]
- Is “a colorful dress” a possible interpretation of “parrot” (irrespective of it being a pun or not)?
  - Answer: **No**

---

Question C asks to rate how different two senses are. This should be answered <u>regardless</u> of the presence of the two senses in the original text and their correct usage in the pun.

**C. [SKIP THIS QUESTION IF YOU ANSWERED “NO” TO QUESTION A OR B]**  
Consider the word-sense pairs “$w_p'$ —— $s_p'$” and “$w_a'$ —— $s_a'$”.  
Rate how **different** the two **senses** are on a scale from 1 (overlapping or very similar) to 5 (very different).

Examples:

- Consider the word-sense pairs “parrot —— a species of tropical birds” and “parrot —— one who imitates the words or actions of another ”. Rate how
