peared only 8 times and likely reflects a spurious correlation rather than a common pun construction).

After selecting the patterns, we sampled all puns containing these language patterns from the PunEval dataset. Missing examples were collected online and generated via GPT-4o using the prompt shown in Fig. 8, with the temperature set to 1.0. All generated examples were manually reviewed, and those that were poorly crafted were either revised or discarded. We queried the model multiple times until we obtained 100 puns for each pattern.

### B.2 PunBreak

To create the PunBreak, we selected 100 heterographic puns and 100 homographic puns from the NAP and PunEval test split. We generated alternatives using GPT-4o-mini for homophone replacements and employed Google Translate to ensure that the substituted words sounded similar to the originals. For random replacements, we compiled a list of random words and replaced them in the dataset, ensuring that these words did not fit contextually within the sentences. To generate synonyms (`alt_syn` and `pun_syn`), we utilized online thesauruses and dictionaries to find synonyms for each word; when synonyms were unavailable, we opted for a hypernym instead. We do our best to ensure that none of these substitutions result in accidental puns. For example, consider the pun *“«Consult an investment broker»was Tom’s stock (stock) answer”*, which plays on *stock* as both *“commonly used or brought forward”* ($s_p$) and *“capital raised by a corporation representing ownership interest”* ($s_a$). For the synonym substitutions, we replaced *“stock”* with *“routine”*, which is roughly equivalent in context, and *equity*, respectively. We purposely avoided using *“default”* in the second substitution, as it carries an economic connotation. As a nonsensical but phonetically similar expression, we used *“stork”* (a bird) and *“yawn”* as a random replacement.

## C Additional Results

Table 7 reports recall over all prompts and the dataset, divided by heterographic and homographic puns.

### C.1 Effect of rationale

Fig. 9 highlights the impact of rationale-augmented prompts for all models on the NAP and JOKER datasets. Fig. 12 compares the impact of the best rationale-augmented prompt (W or W+S) on pun detection performance over the PunnyPattern dataset, excluding the `tom` and `when` patterns that do not consistently bias the tested LLMs. Fig. 13 shows the same results on the PunBreak, when considering only the four substitution sets (800 negative examples). The best prompt used is the one highlighted in Table 10, except for Mistral3, where we select the W prompt as it appears to work better overall. In the violin plots, the right side (light blue) represents the results distributions over the three runs with the rationale-augmented prompt, while the left side (red) represents performance using the FS prompt — typically the best prompt without rationales. Note that in all cases except Mistral, incorporating rationalization reduces the number of false positives, thereby lowering recall and improving precision, countering the bias effect.

### C.2 RQ1

Fig. 9 shows the difference in performance for each prompt used. Fig. 10 shows the same effect over the PunnyPattern dataset. This shows that, overall, the W or W+S prompt improves performance over the simpler prompts.

### C.3 RQ2: Pun Language Patterns

**Pattern identification.** Table 8 lists the six language patterns identified as commonly used to create puns. Table 9 summarizes the statistics for these patterns in our datasets. We omit data for the PunnyPattern dataset, as all examples in it are designed to contain a language pattern.

**Performance.** Table 10 compares the results obtained using each prompt for PunEval and PunnyPattern. Note that the best prompts (in bold) are the same as those that performed best in our RQ1 (Table 1). Fig. 11 visualizes the performance differences for each set of expressions containing language patterns. We interpret bias as being present in models with very high recall but low precision, indicating they tend to classify all instances containing the pattern as puns.

We observe a sharp imbalance of low precision and high recall for the `never_die`, `used`, and `doctor` patterns (Fig. 11), indicating that these patterns tend to mislead LLMs into identifying puns. In contrast, the `tom` and `when` patterns do not appear to consistently affect them. While all LLMs tend to produce many false positives with the `used`,
