for creating the double entendre, while *pun interpretation* requires associating each identified pun word with its correct meaning or sense (Ermakova et al., 2023b; Jain et al., 2019).

**Preliminaries.** Structurally, a pun is composed of a *pun word* ($w_p$), an *alternative word* ($w_a$) and their respective *senses* $s_p$ and $s_a$ (Sun et al., 2022b). For brevity, we will refer to $(w_p, w_a)$ as the *pun pair*. Following previous literature (Miller et al., 2017; Xu et al., 2024), we focus on *heterographic* and *homographic* puns.

In *heterographic* puns (het-puns), only $w_p$ appears in the sentence, while $w_a$ and its sense are evoked through the context. For example, the het-pun *“I bought a boat because it was for <u>sail (sale)</u>”* creates a double meaning by playing on the homophones *sail* (to navigate on a boat) and *sale* (an occasion when items are sold). In contrast, *homographic* puns (hom-puns) feature a polysemous $w_p$, resulting in $w_p = w_a$. The hom-pun *“I was wondering why the ball was getting bigger; then it <u>hit (hit)</u> me”* plays on the two senses of *hit* (to be physically struck) and *hit* (to suddenly realize).

The term *rationale* has been used in the literature to denote various types of evidence justifying a decision, particularly in the form of natural language explanations (Herrewijnen et al., 2024). This is consistent with its usage in prior research on puns (Xu et al., 2024; Sun et al., 2022a), although we do not limit it to unstructured or free-text explanations.

### 3.1 Datasets

Existing collections of puns annotated with the structure just described are limited. The SemEval 2017 dataset (Miller et al., 2017) provides 4,030 samples encompassing heterographic and homographic puns. Later research (Sun et al., 2022a; Xu et al., 2024) refined this dataset by adding sentiment annotations and removing incorrect examples. The English part of the JOKER corpus (Ermakova et al., 2023a,b) extends SemEval and adds 632 new English puns collected from PunOfTheDay.com. By removing or replacing a single contextual word, these puns have been altered to create an equal number of non-puns. Both datasets contain pun words and senses annotations.

We utilize the dataset proposed by Xu et al. (2024), which is the most refined iteration of the SemEval 2017 dataset, along with a subset of the JOKER dataset. In the former, we corrected several typographical errors and 13 incorrect annotations, resulting in 2,589 samples. We split the dataset into training (1,071 samples), testing (1,341), and validation (177) sets, ensuring that no $w_p$ and $w_a$ in the training set appear in the test and validation sets. We refer to this as the *PunEval* dataset. Unlike the SemEval dataset, the full *JOKER* corpus is not publicly available and was released only as part of the JOKER CLEF workshop (Ermakova et al., 2023b). However, the authors kindly agreed to share the complete dataset with us upon request. Since most examples in this dataset originate from the SemEval dataset, we retained the subset of 632 puns and 632 non-puns created by replacing a single word in the original pun. Statistics for all datasets are in Appendix §B.

### 3.2 Comparison models

We benchmark five recent instruction-tuned LLMs on pun understanding, including both open- and closed-weights models: GPT-4o-2024-08-06 (OpenAI) (OpenAI et al., 2024), Qwen2.5-72B (Alibaba) (Yang et al., 2025), Llama3.3-70B (Meta) (Grattafiori et al., 2024), Gemini2.0-Flash (Google DeepMind) (Anil et al., 2025), and Mistral3-24B (Mistral AI) (Jiang et al., 2023). We refer to these models as follows: GPT-4o, Qwen2.5, Llama3.3, Gemini2.0, and Mistral3. Additionally, we employed two reasoning models from the DeepSeek family: DeepSeek-R1 (R1) and DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-70B (R1-D) (DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025), the latter being a distilled version of the full R1, based on Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct.

### 3.3 Prompts

Unlike in Xu et al. (2024), in this work we leverage the pun structure described in §3 and instruct the model to respond in a semi-structured format, facilitating parsing and the evaluation of the rationales.

We adopt the following response format that is compatible with the rationale: `(yes|no) [<$w_p$> <$w_a$> [<$s_p$> <$s_a$>]]`. In the configurations without rationales, the answer would simply be *yes* or *no* for the pun detection task. The content within the angular brackets represents the rationale (or justification) for the answer. Inspired by the success of CoT prompting (Kojima et al., 2022; Wei et al., 2022), we explore an alternative prompting strategy to elicit reasoning from non-reasoning LLMs by asking them to *think before answering*. Unlike previous cases where responses were restricted to a structured format, the reasoning prompts allow the model to
