<table>
<thead>
<tr><th colspan="1">w+s (<em>system</em>)</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>

/* Definition */  
Puns are a type of wordplay that use words with multiple meanings or similar-sounding words to create humor by juxtaposing these different meanings. Non-puns are jokes or statements that do not rely on this kind of wordplay. A pun is created by a pair of words or short expressions, referred to as "w_p" (the pun word) and "w_a" (the alternative word), which together create a humorous effect. Note that "w_p" and "w_a" must be the minimal text spans that create the pun. Depending on the type of pun, either "w_p" equals "w_a", or only "w_p" appears in the text, with "w_a" being evoked by the context. Each of these expressions, "w_p" and "w_a", carries its own meanings, denoted as "s_p" and "s_a" respectively, and these meanings are supported by a set of contextual words.  
/* Instruction */  
You are a helpful assistant tasked with analyzing texts to determine if they contain a pun or not. You must first answer with ’yes’ if the given text is a pun and ’no’ if it is a non-pun. If you think it is a pun, you must also justify your answer by providing "w_p" and "w_a", along with their meanings "s_p" and "s_a".

</td></tr>
<tr><th>w+s (<em>user</em>)</th></tr>
<tr><td>

You must answer with ’yes’ if the given text is a pun and ’no’ if it is a non-pun.  
If you think it is a pun, you must also justify your answer by providing the words, or short expressions, "w_p" and "w_a", along with their meanings "s_p" and "s_a". Note that "w_p" and "w_a" must be the minimal text spans that create the pun, or empty strings if the text is a non-pun. "s_p" and "s_a" must contain short definitions of "w_p" and "w_a" that match their meanings in the context of the sentence, or empty strings if the text is a non-pun. Please provide your answer in one line using the following formats: ’yes &lt;w_p&gt; &lt;w_a&gt; &lt;s_p&gt; &lt;s_a&gt;’ for puns and ’no &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt;’ for non-puns.  
Do not add any additional text or characters.  
/* Examples */  
Text: A carpenter sat on his drill and was bored to tears.  
Output: yes &lt;bored&gt; &lt;bored&gt; &lt;make a hole, especially with a pointed power or hand tool&gt; &lt;cause to be bored&gt;  
Text: Don’t kill the goose that lays the golden eggs?  
Output: no &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt;  
Text: I scream, you scream, we all scream for ice cream!  
Output: yes &lt;ice cream&gt; &lt;I scream&gt; &lt;a dessert made from frozen sweetened cream, usually flavored&gt; &lt;to utter a long loud piercing cry, as from pain or joy&gt;  
Text: He’s dead Jim. Grab his tricorder. I’ll get his wallet!  
Output: no &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt;  
Text: The whistling fisherman was always out of tuna.  
Output: yes &lt;tuna&gt; &lt;tune&gt; &lt;any very large marine food and game fish of the genus Thunnus&gt; &lt;the property of producing accurately a note of a given pitch&gt;  
Text: Better go about than fall into the ditch.  
Output: no &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt; &lt;&gt;  
Text: **INPUT TEXT** Output:

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Figure 4: w+s system and user prompts.

| Dataset | N. chars | N. words | Heterographic puns | Homographic puns | Non-puns | Total samples |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| PunEval (train) | 58 | 13 | 279 | 304 | 488 | 1071 |
| PunEval (test) | 58 | 13 | 312 | 461 | 568 | 1341 |
| PunEval (val) | 59 | 13 | 56 | 46 | 75 | 177 |
| NAP | 67 | 16 | 64 | 64 | 128 | 256 |
| JOKER | 64 | 14 | 381 | 251 | 632 | 1264 |
| **PunnyPattern** | 64 | 15 | 212 | 388 | 600 | 1200 |
| **PunBreak** | 66 | 15 | 100 | 100 | 900 | 1100 |

Table 6: Dataset statistics. Datasets in bold represent the new ones introduced in this work. *N. chars* and *N. words* denote the average number of characters and words per sample, respectively.
