different the two senses are on a scale from 1 (overlapping or very similar) to 5 (very different).

  - Answer: **5** [totally different senses, one literal, one figurative]

- Consider the word-sense pairs “parrot —— a species of tropical birds” and “parrot —— a colorful animal primarily found in subtropical forests”. Rate how different the two senses are on a scale from 1 (overlapping or very similar) to 5 (very different).
  - Answer: **1** [this is a bit subjective, but birds are animals, so these senses refer to the same thing with different words]

---

The next two questions (D, E) ask to <u>contextualize an expression</u> in the original text and decide if its sense is supported or not, <u>irrespective</u> of the expression being part of a pun.

**D. [SKIP THIS QUESTION IF YOU ANSWERED “NO” TO QUESTION A]**  
Is there at least one contextual clue in the text (other than the expression itself) that supports the interpretation of $\mathbf{w}_p'$ as $\mathbf{s}_p'$ (irrespective of it being in a pun or not)?

**E. [SKIP THIS QUESTION IF YOU ANSWERED “NO” TO QUESTION B]**  
Is there at least one contextual clue in the text (other than the expression itself) that supports the interpretation of $\mathbf{w}_a'$ as $\mathbf{s}_a'$ (irrespective of it being in a pun or not)?

Examples:

**TEXT:** *A parrot flies, a coconut rolls.*

- Is there at least one contextual clue in the text (other than the expression itself) that supports the interpretation of “parrot” as “a species of tropical birds”?
  - Answer: **Yes** [the verb “flies” suggests we are talking about a bird; “coconut” also suggests a tropical setting, which fits the definition of the bird]

- Is there at least one contextual clue in the text (other than the expression itself) that supports the interpretation of “parrot” as “one who imitates the words or actions of another, especially without understanding them”?
  - Answer: **No** [there is nothing in the text that hints at this human behavior]

---

The next two questions (F, G) ask if you can recognize any similarity between two expressions, <u>irrespective</u> of how the expressions are used in the text. Additionally, these questions are not shown for some examples.

**F.** Can you recognize a relationship or similarity between $\mathbf{w}_p'$ and $\mathbf{w}_a'$ in terms of *phonetics* (pronunciation)?
