<table>
<tr><th>FS (<em>system</em>)</th></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>/* <em>Definition</em> */<br>
Puns are a type of wordplay that use words with multiple meanings or similar-sounding words to create humor by juxtaposing these different meanings. Non-puns are jokes or statements that do not rely on this kind of wordplay. A pun is created by a pair of words or short expressions, referred to as "w_p" (the pun word) and "w_a" (the alternative word), which together create a humorous effect. Note that "w_p" and "w_a" must be the minimal text spans that create the pun. Depending on the type of pun, either "w_p" equals "w_a", or only "w_p" appears in the text, with "w_a" being evoked by the context. Each of these expressions, "w_p" and "w_a", carries its own meanings, denoted as "s_p" and "s_a" respectively, and these meanings are supported by a set of contextual words.<br>
/* <em>Instruction</em> */<br>
You are a helpful assistant tasked with analyzing texts to determine if they contain a pun or not. You must answer only with ’yes’ if the given text is a pun and ’no’ if it is a non-pun.</p>
</td></tr>
<tr><th>FS (<em>user</em>)</th></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>You must answer only with ’yes’ if the given text is a pun and ’no’ if it is a non-pun. Do not add any additional text or characters.<br>
/* <em>Examples</em> */<br>
Text: A carpenter sat on his drill and was bored to tears.<br>
Output: yes<br>
Text: Don’t kill the goose that lays the golden eggs?<br>
Output: no<br>
Text: I scream, you scream, we all scream for ice cream!<br>
Output: yes<br>
Text: He’s dead Jim. Grab his tricorder. I’ll get his wallet!<br>
Output: no<br>
Text: The whistling fisherman was always out of tuna.<br>
Output: yes<br>
Text: Better go about than fall into the ditch.<br>
Output: no<br>
Text: <strong>INPUT TEXT</strong> Output:</p>
</td></tr>
</table>

Figure 6: FS system and user prompts.

<table>
<tr><th>0s (<em>system</em>)</th></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>You are a helpful assistant tasked with analyzing texts to determine if they contain a pun or not. You must answer only with ’yes’ if the given text is a pun and ’no’ if it is a non-pun.</p>
</td></tr>
<tr><th>0s (<em>user</em>)</th></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>You must answer only with ’yes’ if the given text is a pun and ’no’ if it is a non-pun. Do not add any additional text or characters.<br>
Text: <strong>INPUT TEXT</strong> Output:</p>
</td></tr>
</table>

Figure 7: 0s system and user prompts.
